Day 247:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, speak to the sons of your people, and you shall say to them: Concerning the land, when I will have led the sword over it: if the people of the land take a man, one of their least, and appoint him over themselves as a watchman
    3: and if he sees the sword approaching over the land, and he sounds the trumpet, and he announces to the people
    4: then, having heard the sound of the trumpet, whoever he is, if he also does not take care of himself, and the sword arrives and takes him: his blood will be upon his own head
    5: He heard the sound of the trumpet, and he did not take care of himself, so his blood will be upon him. But if he guards himself, he will save his own life
    6: And if the watchman sees the sword approaching, and he does not sound the trumpet, and so the people do not guard themselves, and the sword arrives and takes some of their lives, certainly these have been taken due to their own iniquity. But I will attribute their blood to the hand of the watchman
    7: And as for you, son of man, I have made you a watchman to the house of Israel. Therefore, having heard the word from my mouth, you shall announce it to them from me
    8: When I say to the impious, ‘O impious man, you will die a death,’ if you have not spoken so that the impious man will keep himself from his way, then that impious man will die in his iniquity. But I will attribute his blood to your hand
    9: But if you have announced to the impious man, so that he may be converted from his ways, and he has not converted from his way, then he will die in his iniquity. Yet you will have freed your own soul
    10: You, therefore, O son of man, say to the house of Israel: You have spoken in this way, saying: ‘Our iniquities and our sins are upon us, and we waste away in them. So then, how would we be able to live?
    11: Say to them: As I live, says the Lord God, I do not desire the death of the impious, but that the impious should convert from his way and live. Be converted, be converted from your evil ways! For why should you die, O house of Israel
    12: And as for you then, son of man, say to the sons of your people: The justice of the just man will not deliver him, on whatever day he will have sinned. And the impiety of the impius man will not harm him, on whatever day he will have been converted from his impiety. And the just man will not be able to live by his justice, on whatever day he will have sinned
    13: Even now, if I say to the just man that he shall certainly live, and so, with confidence in his justice, he commits iniquity, all his justices will be delivered into oblivion, and by his iniquity, which he has done, by this he shall die
    14: And if I say to the impious man, ‘You shall certainly die,’ and yet he repents from his sin, and he does judgment and justice
    15: and if that impious man returns the collateral, and repays what he has taken by force, and if he walks in the commandments of life, and does not do anything unjust, then he shall certainly live, and he shall not die
    16: None of his sins, which he has committed, will be imputed to him. He has done judgment and justice, so he shall certainly live
    17: And the sons of your people have said, ‘The way of the Lord is not a fair balance,’ even while their own way is unjust
    18: For when the just man will have withdrawn from his justice, and committed iniquities, he shall die by these
    19: And when the impious man will have withdrawn from his impiety, and have done judgment and justice, he shall live by these
    20: And yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not right.’ But I shall judge each one of you according to his own ways, O house of Israel.
    21: And it happened that, in the twelfth year of our transmigration, in the tenth month, on the fifth of the month, one who had fled from Jerusalem arrived saying, “The city has been laid waste.
    22: But the hand of the Lord had been upon me in the evening, before the one who had fled arrived. And he opened my mouth, until he came to me in the morning. And since my mouth had been opened, I was no longer silent
    23: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    24: “Son of man, as for those who live in these ruinous ways on the soil of Israel, when speaking, they say: ‘Abraham was one man, and he possessed the land as an inheritance. But we are many; the land has been given to us as a possession.
    25: Therefore, you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: You who eat even the blood, and who lift up your eyes to your uncleannesses, and who shed blood: will you possess the land as an inheritance
    26: You stood by your swords, you committed abominations, and each one has defiled his neighbor’s wife. And will you possess the land as an inheritance
    27: You shall say these things to them: So says the Lord God: As I live, those who live in ruinous ways will fall by the sword. And whoever is in the field will be delivered over to wild beasts to be devoured. But those who are in fortresses and in caves will die of the pestilence
    28: And I will make the land into a wilderness and a desert. And its arrogant strength will fail. And the mountains of Israel will be desolate; for there will be no one who crosses through them
    29: And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have made their land desolate and deserted, because of all their abominations, which they have worked
    30: And as for you, O son of man: the sons of your people speak about you beside the walls and in the doorways of houses. And they speak to one another, each man to his neighbor, saying: ‘Come, and let us hear what may be the word going forth from the Lord.
    31: And they come to you, as if the people were entering, and my people sit before you. And they listen to your words, but they do not do them. For they turn them into a song for their mouth, but their heart pursues their own avarice
    32: And you are to them like a verse set to music, which is sung with a sweet and pleasing voice. And they hear your words, but they do not do them
    33: And when what has been predicted occurs, for behold it is approaching, then they shall know that a prophet was among them.

  Chapter 34.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, prophesy about the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy, and you shall say to the shepherds: Thus says the Lord God: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Should not the flocks be fed by the shepherds
    3: You consumed the milk, and you covered yourselves with the wool, and you killed what was fattened. But my flock you did not feed
    4: What was weak, you have not strengthened, and what was sick, you have not healed. What was broken, you have not bound, and what was cast aside, you have not led back again, and what was lost, you have not sought. Instead, you ruled over them with severity and with power
    5: And my sheep were scattered, because there was no shepherd. And they became devoured by all the wild beasts of the field, and they were dispersed
    6: My sheep have wandered to every mountain and to every exalted hill. And my flocks have been scattered across the face of the earth. And there was no one who sought them; there was no one, I say, who sought them
    7: Because of this, O shepherds, listen to the word of the Lord
    8: As I live, says the Lord God, since my flocks have become a prey, and my sheep have been devoured by all the wild beasts of the field, since there was no shepherd, for my shepherds did not seek my flock, but instead the shepherds fed themselves, and they did not feed my flocks
    9: because of this, O shepherds, listen to the word of the Lord
    10: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I myself will be over the shepherds. I will require my flock at their hand, and I will cause them to cease, so that they no longer refrain from feeding the flock. Neither will the shepherds feed themselves any more. And I will deliver my flock from their mouth; and it will no longer be food for them
    11: For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I myself will seek my sheep, and I myself will visit them
    12: Just as a shepherd visits his flock, in the day when he will be in the midst of his sheep that were scattered, so will I visit my sheep. And I will deliver them from all the places to which they had been scattered in the day of gloom and darkness
    13: And I will lead them away from the peoples, and I will gather them from the lands, and I will bring them into their own land. And I will pasture them on the mountains of Israel, by the rivers, and in all the settlements of the land
    14: I will feed them in very fertile pastures, and their pastures will be on the lofty mountains of Israel. There they will rest on the green grass, and they will be fed in the fat pastures, on the mountains of Israel
    15: I will feed my sheep, and I will cause them to lie down, says the Lord God
    16: I will seek what had been lost. And I will lead back again what had been cast aside. And I will bind up what had been broken. And I will strengthen what had been infirm. And I will preserve what was fat and strong. And I will feed them on judgment
    17: But as for you, O my flocks, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I judge between cattle and cattle, among rams and among he-goats
    18: Was it not enough for you to feed upon good pastures? For you even trample with your feet upon the remainder of your pastures. And when you drank the purist water, you disturbed the remainder with your feet
    19: And my sheep were pastured from what you had trampled with your feet, and they drank from what your feet had disturbed
    20: Because of this, thus says the Lord God to you: Behold, I myself am judging between the fat cattle and the lean
    21: For you have pushed with your sides and shoulders, and you have threatened all the weak cattle with your horns, until they were scattered abroad
    22: I will save my flock, and it will be no longer be a prey, and I will judge between cattle and cattle
    23: And I will raise up over them ONE SHEPHERD, who will feed them, my servant David. He himself will feed them, and he will be their shepherd
    24: And I, the Lord, will be their God. And my servant David will be the leader in their midst. I, the Lord, have spoken
    25: And I will make a covenant of peace with them. And I will cause the very harmful beasts to cease from the land. And those who are living in the desert will sleep securely in the forests
    26: And I will make them a blessing all around my hill. And I will send the rain in due time; there will be showers of blessing
    27: And the tree of the field will yield its fruit, and the land will yield its crop. And they will be in their own land without fear. And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have crushed the chains of their yoke, and when I will have rescued them from the hand of those who rule over them
    28: And they will no longer be a prey to the Gentiles, nor will the wild beasts of the earth devour them. Instead, they will live in confidence without any terror
    29: And I will raise up for them a renown branch. And they will be no longer be diminished by famine in the land, nor will they carry any longer the reproach of the Gentiles
    30: And they shall know that I, the Lord their God, am with them, and that they are my people, the house of Israel, says the Lord God
    31: For you are my flocks; the flocks of my pasture are men. And I am the Lord your God, says the Lord God.

  Chapter 35.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, set your face against mount Seir, and you shall prophesy about it, and you shall say to it
    3: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, mount Seir, and I will extend my hand over you, and I will make you desolate and deserted
    4: I will tear down your cities, and you will be deserted. And you shall know that I am the Lord
    5: For you have been a continual adversary, and you have enclosed the sons of Israel, by the hands of the sword, in the time of their affliction, in the time of extreme iniquity
    6: Because of this, as I live, says the Lord God, I will hand you over to blood, and blood will pursue you. Even though you have hated blood, blood will pursue you
    7: And I will make mount Seir desolate and deserted. And I will take away from it the one who departs and the one who returns
    8: And I will fill up its mountains with its slain. In your hills, and in your valleys, as well as in your torrents, the slain will fall by the sword
    9: I will hand you over to everlasting desolations, and your cities will not be inhabited. And you shall know that I am the Lord God
    10: For you have said, ‘Two nations and two lands will be mine, and I will possess them as an inheritance,’ though the Lord was in that place
    11: Because of this, as I live, says the Lord God, I will act in accord with your own wrath, and in accord with your own zeal, by which you have acted with hatred toward them. And I will be made known by them, when I will have judged you
    12: And you shall know that I, the Lord, have heard all your disgraces, which you have spoken about the mountains of Israel, saying: ‘They are deserted. They have been given to us to devour.
    13: And you rose up against me with your mouth, and you disparaged against me with your words. I have heard
    14: Thus says the Lord God: When the whole earth will rejoice, I will reduce you to solitude
    15: Just as you have rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, when it was laid waste, so will I act toward you. You will be laid waste, O mount Seir, with all of Idumea. And they shall know that I am the Lord.

  Chapter 36.

    1: “But as for you, son of man, prophesy over the mountains of Israel, and you shall say: O mountains of Israel, listen to the word of the Lord
    2: Thus says the Lord God: Because the enemy has said about you: ‘It is well! The everlasting heights have been given to us as an inheritance!
    3: because of this, prophesy and say: Thus says the Lord God: Because you have been made desolate, and you have been trampled on every side, and you have been made into an inheritance for the remainder of the nations, and because you rose up, over the tip of the tongue and over the shame of the people
    4: because of this, O mountains of Israel, listen to the word of the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God to the mountains, and to the hills, to the torrents, and to the valleys, and to the deserts, and to the ruins, and to the forsaken cities, which have been depopulated and ridiculed by the remainder of the nations all around
    5: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: In the fire of my zeal, I have spoken about the remainder of the nations, and about all of Idumea, who have given my land to themselves, joyfully, as an inheritance, and with all the heart and mind, and who have cast it out, so that they may lay waste to it
    6: Therefore, prophesy over the soil of Israel, and you shall say to the mountains, and to the hills, to the ridges, and to the valleys: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I have spoken in my zeal and in my fury, because you have endured the shame of the Gentiles
    7: Therefore, thus says the Lord God: I have lifted up my hand, so that the Gentiles, who are all around you, will themselves bear their shame
    8: But as for you, O mountains of Israel, spring forth your branches, and bear your fruit, to my people Israel. For they are close to their advent
    9: For behold, I am for you, and I will turn to you, and you will be plowed, and you will receive seed
    10: And I will multiply men among you and among all the house of Israel. And the cities shall be inhabited, and the ruinous places shall be restored
    11: And I will fill you again with men and with cattle. And they will be multiplied, and they will increase. And I will cause you to live as from the beginning, and I will give you even greater gifts than those you had from the start. And you shall know that I am the Lord
    12: And I will lead men over you, over my people Israel, and they will possess you as an inheritance. And you shall be to them as an inheritance. And you shall no longer be permitted to be without them
    13: Thus says the Lord God: Because they are saying about you, ‘You are a woman who devours men, and you are strangling your own nation,
    14: because of this, you shall no longer consume men, and you shall no longer harm your own nation, says the Lord God
    15: Neither will I permit men to discover in you the shame of the Gentiles any more. And you shall never again bear the reproach of the peoples. And you shall not send your people away any more, says the Lord God.
    16: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    17: “Son of man, the house of Israel lived on their own soil, and they defiled it with their ways and with their intentions. Their way, in my sight, became like the uncleanness of a menstruous woman
    18: And so I poured out my indignation upon them, because of the blood which they shed upon the land, and because they defiled it with their idols
    19: And I dispersed them among the Gentiles, and they have been scattered among the lands. I have judged them according to their ways and their plans
    20: And when they walked among the Gentiles, to whom they had entered, they defiled my holy name, though it was being said about them: ‘This is the people of the Lord,’ and ‘They went forth from his land.
    21: But I have spared my holy name, which the house of Israel has defiled among the Gentiles, to whom they entered
    22: For this reason, you shall say to the house of Israel: Thus says the Lord God: I will act, not for your sake, O house of Israel, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have defiled among the Gentiles, to whom you entered
    23: And I will sanctify my great name, which was defiled among the Gentiles, which you have defiled in their midst. So may the Gentiles know that I am the Lord, says the Lord of hosts, when I will have been sanctified in you, before their eyes
    24: Certainly, I will take you away from the Gentiles, and I will gather you together from all the lands, and I will lead you into your own land
    25: And I will pour clean water over you, and you shall be cleansed from all your filth, and I will cleanse you from all your idols
    26: And I will give to you a new heart, and I will place in you a new spirit. And I will take away the heart of stone from your body, and I will give to you a heart of flesh
    27: And I will place my Spirit in your midst. And I will act so that you may walk in my precepts and keep my judgments, and so that you may fulfill them
    28: And you shall live in the land that I gave to your fathers. And you shall be my people, and I will be your God
    29: And I will save you from all your filth. And I will call for grain, and I will multiply it, and I will not impose a famine upon you
    30: And I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the produce of the field, so that you may no longer bear the disgrace of famine among the nations
    31: And you shall remember your very wicked ways and your intentions, which were not good. And you will be displeased by your own iniquities and your own crimes
    32: It is not for your sakes that I will act, says the Lord God; let this be known to you. Be confounded and ashamed over your own ways, O house of Israel
    33: Thus says the Lord God: In the day when I will have cleansed you from all your iniquities, and when I will have caused the cities to be inhabited, and when I will have restored the ruinous places
    34: and when the deserted land will have been cultivated, which previously was desolate to the eyes of all who passed by
    35: then they shall say: ‘This uncultivated land has become a garden of delight, and the cities, which were deserted and destitute and overturned, have been settled and fortified.
    36: And the Gentiles, those who remain around you, shall know that I, the Lord, have built up what was destroyed, and have planted what was uncultivated. I, the Lord, have spoken and acted
    37: Thus says the Lord God: Even in this time, the house of Israel shall find me, so that I may act for them. I will multiply them like a flock of men
    38: like a holy flock, like the flock of Jerusalem in her solemnities. So shall the deserted cities be filled with flocks of men. And they shall know that I am the Lord.

End of day 247.