Day 236:

Reading Lamentations, chapters ['4', '5']:

  Chapter 4.

    1: ALEPH. O how the gold has become dulled, the finest color has been altered, the stones of the sanctuary have been scattered at the head of every street
    2: BETH. The famous sons of Zion, and those clothed with the foremost gold: how they have become like earthen vessels, the work of the hands of a potter
    3: GHIMEL. Yet even savages expose their breast and give milk to their young. But the daughter of my people is cruel, like the ostrich in the desert
    4: DALETH. The tongue of the infant adheres to his palate out of thirst. The little ones have asked for bread, and there was no one to break it for them
    5: HE. Those who were fed indulgently have passed away in the roads. Those who were nourished with saffron have welcomed filth
    6: VAU. And the iniquity of the daughter of my people has been made greater than the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown in a moment, and yet hands did not take captives in her
    7: ZAIN. Her Nazirites were whiter than snow, shinier than milk, more ruddy than ancient ivory, more beautiful than sapphire
    8: HETH. Their face has been blacked more than coals, and they are not recognized in the streets. Their skin has adhered to their bones; it dried out and became like wood
    9: TETH. It was better for those slain by the sword, than for those put to death by famine. For these waste away, being consumed by the sterility of the land
    10: JOD. The hands of pitiable women have boiled their sons. They became their food in the grief of the daughter of my people
    11: CAPH. The Lord has completed his fury; he has poured out the wrath of his indignation. And he has kindled a fire in Zion, and it has devoured its foundations
    12: LAMED. The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world, did not believe that the adversary and the enemy would enter through the gates of Jerusalem
    13: MEM. It is because of the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, who have shed the blood of the just in her midst
    14: NUN. They have wandered in the streets like the blind; they have been defiled with blood. And when they were not able, they held their garments
    15: SAMECH. “Go back, you polluted ones!” they cried out to them. “Go back, go away, do not touch!” Of course, they argued, and being removed, they said among the Gentiles, “He will no longer dwell among them.
    16: PHE. The face of the Lord has divided them. He will no longer respect them. They were not ashamed before the faces of the priests, nor did they take pity on the elderly
    17: AIN. While we were still standing, our eyes failed, expecting help for us in vain, when we looked attentively toward a nation that was not able to save
    18: SADE. Our footsteps have slipped on the paths of our own streets. Our end draws near. Our days have been completed, for our end has arrived
    19: COPH. Our persecutors have been swifter than the eagles of the sky. They have been pursuing us above the mountains; they have lain in wait for us in the desert
    20: RES. The spirit of our mouth, Christ the Lord, has been captured by our sins; to him, we said, “In your shadow, we will live among the Gentiles.
    21: SIN. Be glad and rejoice, O daughter of Edom, who dwells in the Land of Uz. The cup will also pass to you; you will be inebriated as well as naked
    22: THAU. Your iniquity has been completed, O daughter of Zion. He will no longer send you away to captivity. He has visited your iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he has uncovered your sins

  Chapter 5.

    1: Remember, O Lord, what has befallen us. Consider and look kindly upon our disgrace
    2: Our inheritance has been turned over to foreigners; our houses to outsiders
    3: We have become orphans without a father; our mothers are like widows
    4: We paid for our drinking water. We acquired our wood for a price
    5: We were dragged by our necks. Being weary, no rest was given to us
    6: We have given our hand to Egypt and to the Assyrians, so that we may be satisfied with bread
    7: Our fathers have sinned, and are not. And we have carried their iniquities
    8: Servants have become rulers over us. There was no one to redeem us from their hand
    9: We obtained our bread at the risk of our lives, before the face of the sword, in the wilderness
    10: Our skin was burned, as if by an oven, before the face of the tempest of the famine
    11: They humiliated the women in Zion and the virgins in the cities of Judah
    12: The leaders were suspended by their hand. They were not ashamed before the faces of the elders
    13: They have sexually abused the adolescents, and the children were corrupted in the wood
    14: The elders have ceased from the gates, the youths from the choir of the psalms
    15: The gladness of our heart has failed, our singing has been turned into mourning
    16: The crown has fallen from our head. Woe to us, for we have sinned
    17: Because of this, our heart became gloomy; for this reason, our eyes have been darkened
    18: because of mount Zion, because it was ruined. Foxes have wandered upon it
    19: But you, O Lord, shall remain for eternity, your throne from generation to generation
    20: Why would you forget us forever? Why would you forsake us for a long time
    21: Convert us, O Lord, to you, and we shall be converted. Renew our days, as from the beginning
    22: But you have utterly rejected us; you are vehemently angry against us

End of day 236.