Day 343:

Reading Hebrews, chapters ['13']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: May fraternal charity remain in you
    2: And do not be willing to forget hospitality. For by it, certain persons, without realizing it, have received Angels as guests
    3: Remember those who are prisoners, just as if you were imprisoned with them, and those who endure hardships, just as if you were in their place
    4: May marriage be honorable in every way, and may the marriage bed be immaculate. For God will judge fornicators and adulterers
    5: Let your behavior be without avarice; be content with what you are offered. For he himself has said, “I will not abandon you, and I will not neglect you.
    6: So then, we may confidently say, “The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me.
    7: Remember your leaders, who have spoken the Word of God to you, whose faith you imitate, by observing the goal of their way of life
    8: Jesus Christ, yesterday and today; Jesus Christ forever
    9: Do not be led away by changing or strange doctrines. And it is best for the heart to be sustained by grace, not by foods. For the latter have not been as useful to those who walked by them
    10: We have an altar: those who serve in the tabernacle have no authority to eat from it
    11: For the bodies of those animals whose blood is carried into the Holy of holies by the high priest, on behalf of sin, are burned outside the camp
    12: Because of this, Jesus, too, in order to sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered outside the gate
    13: And so, let us go forth to him, outside the camp, bearing his reproach
    14: For in this place, we have no everlasting city; instead, we seek one in the future
    15: Therefore, through him, let us offer the sacrifice of continual praise to God, which is the fruit of lips confessing his name
    16: But do not be willing to forget good works and fellowship. For God is deserving of such sacrifices
    17: Obey your leaders and be subject to them. For they watch over you, as if to render an account of your souls. So then, may they do this with joy, and not with grief. Otherwise, it would not be as helpful to you
    18: Pray for us. For we trust that we have a good conscience, being willing to conduct ourselves well in all things
    19: And I beg you, all the more, to do this, so that I may be quickly returned to you
    20: Then may the God of peace, who led back from the dead that great Pastor of sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, with the blood of the eternal testament
    21: equip you with all goodness, so that you may do his will. May he accomplish in you whatever is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory forever and ever. Amen
    22: And I beg you, brothers, that you may permit this word of consolation, especially since I have written to you with few words
    23: Know that our brother Timothy has been set free. If he arrives soon, then I will see you with him
    24: Greet all your leaders and all the saints. The brothers from Italy greet you
    25: Grace be with you all. Amen

End of day 343.