Day 199:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['28', '29', '30', '31']:

  Chapter 28.

    1: Whoever wishes for vengeance will find vengeance from the Lord, and he will surely be attentive to his sins
    2: Forgive your neighbor, if he has harmed you, and then your sins will be forgiven you when you pray
    3: A man holds on to anger against another man, and does he then seek a remedy from God
    4: He has no mercy on a man like himself, and does he then entreat for his own sins
    5: He who is but flesh holds on to anger, and does he then request forgiveness from God? Who can obtain pardon for his sins in this way
    6: Remember your very end, and let animosities cease
    7: For corruption and death are suspended over his commandments
    8: Remember the fear of God, and do not be angry with your neighbor
    9: Remember the covenant of the Most High, and overlook the ignorant offenses of your neighbor
    10: Refrain from strife, and you will diminish your sins
    11: For an ill-tempered man enflames conflict, and a sinful man troubles his friends, and he casts hostility into the midst of those who have peace
    12: For the fire burns according to the wood of the forest. And the anger of a man burns according to the strength of the man. And according to his resources, he will exalt his anger
    13: A hasty contention kindles a fire. And a hasty quarrel sheds blood. And an accusatory tongue brings death
    14: If you blow on a spark, it will increase to a fire. But if you spit on it, it will be extinguished. Both of these proceed from the mouth
    15: The double-tongued whisperer is accursed. For he has disturbed many who had peace
    16: A third tongue has stirred up many, and has scattered them from nation to nation
    17: It has destroyed the walled cities of the wealthy, and has undermined the houses of the great
    18: It has cut down the virtues of the peoples, and has broken strong nations
    19: A third tongue has cast down virtuous women, and has deprived them of their labors
    20: Whoever favors it will not have rest, nor will he have a friend in whom he may find peace
    21: The wound of a whip causes a bruise, but the wound of the tongue will crush the bones
    22: Many have fallen by the mouth of the sword, but not as many as have perished by their own tongue
    23: Blessed is he who is protected from a wicked tongue, who has not gone over to its wrath, and has not pulled its yoke, and has not been bound by its chains
    24: For its yoke is a yoke of iron. And its chains are chains of brass
    25: Its death is a most wicked death. And hell is more useful than it is
    26: Its continuance will not be permanent, but it will take hold of the ways of the unjust. And the just will not be burned by its flame
    27: Those who abandon God will fall by it, and it will burn within them and not be quenched. And it will be sent upon them, like a lion, and it will wound them, like a leopard
    28: Hedge your ears with thorns. Do not be willing to listen to a wicked tongue. And make doors and bars for your mouth
    29: Melt down your gold and your silver. And make a scale for your words, and an upright bridle for your mouth
    30: And be attentive, lest perhaps you may slip with your tongue, and fall in the sight of your enemies, who are lying in wait for you, and then your fall may be incurable unto death

  Chapter 29.

    1: He shows mercy who lends to his neighbor, for he keeps the commandments by strengthening him
    2: Lend to your neighbor in his time of need, and receive it again from your neighbor in his time
    3: Keep your word, and act faithfully with him, and then you will find whatever you need in every time
    4: Many have treated a loan like found money, and they offered trouble to those who helped them
    5: Until they receive, they kiss the hands of the giver, and they humble their voice in promises
    6: But at the time of repayment, they will ask for more time, and they will speak annoying and complaining words, and they will make excuses for the time
    7: Then, if he is able to repay, he will turn away. He will pay barely one half, and he will consider it as if he had found it
    8: But if not, then he will defraud him of his money, and he will have him as an enemy without cause
    9: And he will repay him with accusations and curses, and he will repay him with contempt, instead of with honor and kindness
    10: Many have refused to lend, not because of wickedness, but because they were afraid to be defrauded without cause
    11: Yet truly, be more steadfast toward the humble, and you should not delay in acts of mercy toward them
    12: Assist the poor because of the commandment. And you should not send him away empty because of his dire need
    13: Lose your money to your brother and your friend. For you should not hide it under a stone to be lost
    14: Let your treasure be in the precepts of the Most High, and it will benefit you more than gold
    15: Store your alms in the hearts of the poor, and it will obtain help for you against all evil
    16: Better than the shield or the lance of a powerful man
    17: it will fight for you against your enemy
    18: A good man offers credit for the sake of his neighbor. But one who abandons him to himself will perish in shame
    19: You should not forget the kindness of your benefactor. For he has offered his life on your behalf
    20: The sinner and the unclean flee from such promises
    21: A sinner attributes to himself the goods of his loan. And an ungrateful mind will abandon the one who has freed him
    22: A man offers credit to his neighbor. But when he will have lost respect, he will abandon him
    23: A wicked promise has destroyed many who had good intentions, and has tossed them like a wave on the ocean
    24: It has caused powerful men to travel around, and they have wandered amid foreign nations
    25: A sinner transgressing the commandment of the Lord will fall into a wicked promise. And he who undertakes many things will fall into judgment
    26: Help your neighbor to recover according to your ability, but attend to yourself, lest you also fall
    27: The primary need in a man’s life is water and bread, and clothing, and a house to protect modesty
    28: A pauper’s food under a roof of boards is better than a splendid feast on a sojourn away from home
    29: Let yourself be pleased with little instead of much, and you will not hear the reproach of being away from home
    30: It is a wicked life to go from house to house as a guest. For wherever he is a guest, he will not act confidently, nor open his mouth
    31: He will entertain, and feed, and give drink to the ungrateful, and beyond this, he will listen to bitter words
    32: “Go, my guest, and set the table, and let others eat from what you have in your hand.
    33: “Depart from the honored face of my friends. For it has become necessary for my house to host my brother instead.
    34: These things are grievous to a man having understanding: to take advantage of a household, and to reproach a lender

  Chapter 30.

    1: He who loves his son will frequently chastise him, so that he may be happy in the very end, and not grope for the doors of his neighbors
    2: He who instructs his son will be praised over him and will glory in him, in the midst of his household
    3: He who teaches his son will make his enemy jealous, and in the midst of his friends, he will glory in him
    4: When his father has died, it will be as if he were not dead. For he will have left behind someone who is like himself
    5: In his life, he saw him and rejoiced in him. And at his passing, he was not sorrowful, nor was he confounded in the sight of his enemies
    6: For he left behind himself a defender of his house against his enemies, and someone who will repay his friends with kindness
    7: For the sake of the souls of his sons, he will bind up his wounds, and at every voice, his gut will be stirred up
    8: An untamed horse becomes stubborn, and a child left to himself becomes headstrong
    9: Coddle a son, and he will make you afraid. Play with him, and he will make you sorrowful
    10: You should not laugh with him; otherwise you may have grief, and in the end, your teeth be clenched
    11: You should not give him power in his youth, but you should not despise his thoughts
    12: Bow down his neck in his youth, and slap his sides while he is a child, lest perhaps he may become stubborn, and then he will not trust you, and so he will bring sorrow to your soul
    13: Instruct your son, and work with him, lest you give offense by his shameful behavior
    14: Better is a healthy pauper with a strong constitution, than a wealthy man who is weak and afflicted by maladies
    15: A healthy soul with the sanctity of justice is better than all the gold and silver. And a sound body is better than immense revenues
    16: There is no revenue above the revenue of a healthy body. And there is no delight above a joyful heart
    17: Death is better than a bitter life. And eternal rest is better than continual sickness
    18: Good things hidden in a closed mouth are like seats at a feast placed around a grave
    19: What benefit is there in an offering to an idol? For it can neither eat, nor smell
    20: So is he who flees from the Lord, carrying the wages of his iniquity
    21: He sees with his eyes and groans, like a eunuch who embraces a virgin and sighs
    22: You should not give your soul to sadness, and you should not afflict yourself by your own counsel
    23: The gladness of the heart is the life of a man, and it is a treasure of sanctity without defect. And the exultation of a man is length of life
    24: Take pity on your own soul by pleasing God, and show self-restraint. Gather your heart into his sanctity, and drive sadness far away from yourself
    25: For sadness has killed many, and there is no usefulness in it
    26: Envy and anger will diminish your days, and pensiveness will bring old age before its time
    27: A cheerful and good heart is like a feast. And its feasts are formed by diligence

  Chapter 31.

    1: Watching for wealth consumes the flesh, and thinking about it takes away sleep
    2: Anticipation in thought distracts the mind, and a grievous infirmity makes the soul sober
    3: The rich man has labored in gathering wealth, and in his rest, he will be filled with his goods
    4: The poor man has labored in his lowly way, and in the end, he may still be in need
    5: Whoever loves gold will not be justified. And whoever pursues consumption will be consumed by it
    6: Many have been caused to fall because of gold, and it became their ruin by its beauty
    7: Gold is a stumbling block to those who sacrifice for it. Woe to those who pursue it eagerly, for all the imprudent will perish by it
    8: Blessed is the rich man who is found to be without blemish. And blessed is he who has not gone after gold, nor placed his hope in money or treasures
    9: Who is he? For we should praise him. For he has done wonderful things in his life
    10: He has been tested by it, and has become perfect; he will have eternal glory. He was able to transgress, but he has not transgressed. He was able to do evil, but he has not done evil
    11: Therefore, his good things are established in the Lord, and the entire Church of the saints will proclaim his almsgiving
    12: Are you seated at a great table? You should not open your mouth over it first
    13: You should not speak in this way: “There are many things that are upon it.
    14: Remember that a wicked eye is evil
    15: What has been made more wicked than the eye? Therefore, when it sees, it will shed tears over the entire face
    16: You should not extend your hand first, for then, having been corrupted by envy, you would be ashamed
    17: You should not press forward at a feast
    18: Understand which things are your neighbor’s and not your own
    19: Make use of the things that are set before you, just as a frugal man would. Otherwise, if you eat much, you will be hated
    20: Cease eating first, for the sake of discipline. And do not eat to excess, lest you offend
    21: And if you sit in the midst of many, you should not extend your hand before they do, and you should not be the first to ask for a drink
    22: How sufficient is a little wine for a well-taught man! For in sleep, you will not labor because of it, and you will not feel pain
    23: Worry, and disease, and torment are with an intemperate man
    24: A healthy sleep is with a temperate man. He will sleep until morning, and his soul will be delighted with him
    25: And if you have been coaxed into eating too much, rise up, go outside, and vomit. And it will refresh you, and you will not bring sickness upon your body
    26: Listen to me, son, for you should not spurn me. And in the very end, you will discover my words
    27: In all your works, be prompt, and then no infirmity will befall you
    28: The lips of many will bless the splendid in bread. For the testimony of his truthfulness is faithful
    29: The city will murmur against the wicked in bread. For the testimony against his wickedness is true
    30: Do not choose to provoke those who love wine. For wine has destroyed many
    31: Fire tests the hardness of iron; similarly, drinking wine to inebriation will rebuke the hearts of the arrogant
    32: Drinking wine in sobriety gives a contented life to men. If you drink it in moderation, you will be sober
    33: What is life to him who is diminished by wine
    34: What can cheat him of his life? Death
    35: From the beginning, wine was created for cheerfulness, but not for inebriation
    36: Wine taken in moderation lifts up the mind and the heart
    37: Sober drinking is healthful to mind and body
    38: Wine taken in excess stirs up conflict and anger, and brings many to ruin
    39: Wine taken in excess is bitter to the soul
    40: The effects of inebriation are a stumbling block to the imprudent, diminishing strength and causing wounds
    41: You should not argue with your neighbor during a banquet of wine. And you should not spurn him in his cheerfulness
    42: You should not speak words of reproach to him. And you should not press him with repeated requests

End of day 199.