Day 258:

Reading Hosea, chapters ['13', '14']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: While Ephraim was speaking, a horror entered Israel, and he offended by Baal, and he died
    2: And now they add that they will be sinning more. And they have made themselves an image cast from their silver, just like the image of idols; but the whole thing has been made by craftsmen. These say to them, “Sacrifice men, you who adore calves.
    3: For this reason, they will be like the morning clouds, and like the morning dew that passes away, just like the dust that is driven by a whirlwind away from the threshing floor, and like the smoke from a chimney
    4: But I am the Lord your God from the land of Egypt, and you will not know God apart from me, and there is no Savior except me
    5: I knew you in the desert, in the land of solitude
    6: According to their pastures, they have been filled up and have been satisfied. And they have lifted up their heart, and they have forgotten me
    7: And I will be to them like a lioness, like a leopard in the way of the Assyrians
    8: I will run to meet them like a bear that has been robbed of her young, and I will split open the middle of their liver. And I will devour them there like a lion; the beast of the field will tear them apart
    9: Perdition is yours, Israel. Your help is only in me
    10: Where is your king? Now, especially, let him save you in all your cities, and from your judges, about whom you said, “Give me kings and princes.
    11: I will give you a king in my wrath, and I will take him away in my indignation
    12: The iniquity of Ephraim has been bound; his sin has been engulfed
    13: The pains of giving birth will reach him. He is an unwise son. For now he will not remain firm during the contrition of his sons
    14: I will free them from the hand of death; from death I will redeem them. Death, I will be your death. Hell, I will be your deadly wound. Consolation is hidden from my eyes
    15: For he will make a division among brothers. The Lord will bring a burning wind, rising up from the desert, and it will dry up his streams, and it will make his fountain desolate, and he will tear apart every collection of desirable useful things

  Chapter 14.

    1: Let Samaria perish, because she has urged her God towards bitterness. Let them perish by the sword, let their little ones be thrown down, and let their pregnant women be cut in two
    2: Israel, convert to the Lord your God. For you have been ruined by your own iniquity
    3: Take these words with you and return to the Lord. And say to him, “Remove all iniquity and accept the good. And we will repay the calves of our lips
    4: Assur will not save us; we will not ride on horses. Neither will we say any more, ‘The works of our hands are our gods,’ for those that are in you will have mercy on the orphan.
    5: I will heal their contrition; I will love them spontaneously. For my wrath has been turned away from them
    6: I will be like the dew; Israel will spring forth like the lily, and his root will spread out like that of the cedars of Lebanon
    7: His branches will advance, and his glory will be like the olive tree, and his fragrance will be like that of the cedars of Lebanon
    8: They will be converted, sitting in his shadow. They will live on wheat, and they will grow like a vine. His memorial will be like the wine of the cedars of Lebanon
    9: Ephraim will say, “What are idols to me any more?” I will listen to him, and I will set him straight like a healthy spruce tree. Your fruit has been found by me
    10: Who is wise and will understand this? Who has understanding and will know these things? For the ways of the Lord are straight, and the just will walk in them, but truly, the traitors will fall in them

End of day 258.