Day 16:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then the Lord said to Moses: “Enter to Pharaoh, and say to him: ‘Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: Release my people, to sacrifice to me
    2: But if you still refuse, and you retain them
    3: behold, my hand will be over your fields. And a very grievous pestilence will be upon the horses, and the donkeys, and the camels, and the oxen, and the sheep
    4: And the Lord will cause a miracle between the possessions of Israel and the possessions of the Egyptians, so that nothing at all will perish from those things which belong to the sons of Israel.
    5: And the Lord appointed a time, saying: “Tomorrow, the Lord will accomplish this word in the land.
    6: Therefore, the Lord accomplished this word the next day. And all the animals of the Egyptians died. Yet truly, of the animals of the sons of Israel, nothing at all perished
    7: And Pharaoh sent to see; neither was there anything dead of those things that Israel possessed. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not release the people
    8: And the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron: “Take handfuls of ashes from the oven, and let Moses sprinkle it into the air, in the sight of Pharaoh
    9: And let there be dust upon all the land of Egypt. For there will be sores and swelling pustules on men and on beasts, throughout the entire land of Egypt.
    10: And they took ashes from the oven, and they stood in the sight of Pharaoh, and Moses sprinkled it in the air. And there came sores with swelling pustules on men and on beasts
    11: Neither could the sorcerers stand in the sight of Moses, because of the sores that were on them and on all the land of Egypt
    12: And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord said to Moses
    13: And the Lord said to Moses: “Rise up in the morning, and stand in the sight of Pharaoh, and you will say to him: ‘Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: Release my people to sacrifice to me
    14: For at this turn, I will send all my plagues upon your heart, and upon your servants, and upon your people. So may you know that there is no one like me in all the earth
    15: For now, extending my hand, I shall strike you and your people with pestilence, and you will perish from the earth
    16: But it was for this reason that I appointed you, so that I may reveal my strength by you, and so that my name may be described throughout all the earth
    17: Do you still retain my people, and are you still unwilling to release them
    18: So then, tomorrow, at this same hour, I will rain down exceedingly great hail, such as has not been in Egypt from the day that it was founded, even until this present time
    19: Therefore, send immediately and gather together your cattle, and all that you have in the field. For men and beasts, and all things that will be found outside, not gathered in from the fields, and on which the hail will fall, shall die.’ 
    20: He who feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh caused his servants and cattle to flee together into the houses
    21: But he who neglected the word of the Lord released his servants and cattle into the fields
    22: And the Lord said to Moses: “Extend your hand into the sky, so that there may be hail in the entire land of Egypt, on men, and on beasts, and on every plant of the field in the land of Egypt.
    23: And Moses extended his staff into the sky, and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and also lightning dashing across the earth. And the Lord rained down hail upon the land of Egypt
    24: And the hail and intermingled fire drove on together. And it was of such magnitude as had never before been seen in the entire land of Egypt, from the time when that nation was formed
    25: And the hail struck, throughout all the land of Egypt, everything that was in the fields, from man even to beast. And the hail struck down every plant of the field, and it broke every tree of the region
    26: Only in the land of Goshen, where the sons of Israel were, did the hail not fall
    27: And Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron, saying to them: “I have sinned even until now. The Lord is just. I and my people are impious
    28: Pray to the Lord, so that the thundering of God and the hail may cease, so that I may release you, and so that you may by no means remain here any longer.
    29: Moses said: “When I have departed from the city, I will extend my hands to the Lord, and the thunders will cease, and the hail will not be, so that you may know that the earth belongs to the Lord
    30: But I know that both you and your servants do not yet fear the Lord God.
    31: And so, the flax and the barley were damaged, because the barley was growing, and the flax was already developing grains
    32: But the wheat and the spelt were not damaged, because they were late
    33: And Moses, departing from Pharaoh out of the city, reached out his hands toward the Lord. And the thunders and hail ceased, neither did there drop any more rain upon the land
    34: Then Pharaoh, seeing that the rain, and the hail, and the thunders had ceased, added to his sin
    35: And his heart was weighed down, along with that of his servants, and it was hardened exceedingly. Neither did he release the sons of Israel, just as the Lord had instructed by the hand of Moses

  Chapter 10.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: “Enter to Pharaoh. For I have hardened his heart, and that of his servants, so that I may accomplish these, my signs, in him
    2: and so that you may describe to the ears of your sons and your grandsons how often I opposed the Egyptians and wrought my signs among them, and so that you may know that I am the Lord.
    3: Therefore, Moses and Aaron entered to Pharaoh, and they said to him: “Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: How long will you be unwilling to be subject to me? Release my people to sacrifice to me
    4: But if you resist, and you are unwilling to release them, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your borders
    5: And they shall cover the face of the earth, lest any part of it be seen. Yes, and what remains from the hail shall be eaten. For they will gnaw away all the trees that spring up in the fields
    6: And they will fill your houses, and those of your servants and of all the Egyptians: so many as your fathers and ancestors have not seen, from the time that they rose up over the earth, even until this present day.” And he turned himself away, and he departed from Pharaoh
    7: Then the servants of Pharaoh said to him: “How long must we endure this scandal? Release the men, in order to sacrifice to the Lord their God. Do you not see that Egypt is perishing?
    8: And they called back Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh, who said to them: “Go, sacrifice to the Lord your God. Who are they who would go?
    9: Moses said: “We will travel with our little ones and our elderly, with our sons and daughters, with our sheep and herds. For it is a solemnity of the Lord our God.
    10: And Pharaoh responded: “So let the Lord be with you. But if I were to release you and your little ones, who would doubt that you intend some great wickedness
    11: It will not be so. However, go only with the men, and sacrifice to the Lord. For this, too, is what you yourselves requested.” And immediately they were cast out from the sight of Pharaoh
    12: Then the Lord said to Moses: “Extend your hand over the land of Egypt, toward the locusts, so that they may rise up over it, and devour every plant which remains from the hail.
    13: And Moses extended his staff over the land of Egypt. And the Lord brought a burning wind all that day and night. And when morning came, the burning wind lifted up the locusts
    14: And they ascended over the entire land of Egypt. And they settled into all the parts of the Egyptians: innumerable, such as had not been before that time, nor ever would be thereafter
    15: And they covered the entire face of the land, laying waste to all things. And the plants of the land were devoured, along with whatever fruits were on the trees, which the hail had left behind. And nothing at all of the greenery remained on the trees or on the plants of the earth in all of Egypt
    16: For this reason, Pharaoh hurriedly called Moses and Aaron, and he said to them: “I have sinned against the Lord your God, and against you
    17: But now, release me from my sin even this time, and petition the Lord your God, so that he may take this death away from me.
    18: And Moses, departing from the sight of Pharaoh, prayed to the Lord
    19: And he caused a very strong wind to blow from the west, and, seizing the locusts, it cast them into the Red Sea. There remained not so much as one in all the parts of Egypt
    20: And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh; neither did he release the sons of Israel
    21: Then the Lord said to Moses: “Extend your hand into the sky. And let there be a darkness over the land of Egypt, so dense that they may be able to feel it.
    22: And Moses extended his hand into the sky. And there came a horrible darkness in the entire land of Egypt for three days
    23: No one saw his brother, nor moved himself out of the place where he was. But wherever the sons of Israel were living, there was light
    24: And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and he said to them: “Go, sacrifice to the Lord. Only let your sheep and herds remain behind. Your little ones may go with you.
    25: Moses said: “You must also permit us victims and holocausts, which we may offer to the Lord our God
    26: All the flocks shall travel with us. Not one hoof of them shall remain behind. For they are necessary for the worship of the Lord our God, especially since we do not know what ought to be immolated, until we arrive at the very place.
    27: But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he was not willing to release them
    28: And Pharaoh said to Moses: “Withdraw from me, and beware that you no longer see my face. On whatever day you will appear in my sight, you shall die.
    29: Moses responded: “So be it, just as you have said. I will no longer see your face.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: “I will touch Pharaoh and Egypt with one more plague, and after these things he will release you, and he will compel you to go out
    2: Therefore, you will tell all the people to ask, a man of his friend, and a woman of her neighbor, for vessels of silver and of gold
    3: Then the Lord will grant favor to his people in the sight of the Egyptians.” And Moses was a very great man in the land of Egypt, in the sight of the servants of Pharaoh and of all the people
    4: And he said: “Thus says the Lord: ‘In the middle of the night I will enter into Egypt
    5: And every firstborn in the land of the Egyptians shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the handmaid, who is at the millstone, and all the firstborn of the beasts of burden
    6: And there will be a great outcry throughout the entire land of Egypt, such as has not been before, nor ever will be afterward
    7: But among all the sons of Israel there shall not be even a mutter from a dog, from man, even to cattle, so that you may know how miraculously the Lord divides the Egyptians from Israel.
    8: And all these, your servants, shall descend to me and shall reverence me, by saying: ‘Depart, you and all the people who are subject to you.’ After these things, we will depart.
    9: And he went out from Pharaoh exceedingly angry. Then the Lord said to Moses: “Pharaoh will not listen to you, so that many signs may be accomplished in the land of Egypt.
    10: Now Moses and Aaron did all the wonders that are written, in the sight of Pharaoh. And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh; neither did he release the sons of Israel from his land

  Chapter 12.

    1: The Lord also said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt
    2: “This month will be for you the beginning of the months. It will be first in the months of the year
    3: Speak to the entire assembly of the sons of Israel, and say to them: On the tenth day of this month, let everyone take a lamb, by their families and houses
    4: But if the number is less than may suffice to be able to consume the lamb, he shall accept his neighbor, who has been joined with his house according to the number of souls that may suffice to be able to eat the lamb
    5: And it shall be a lamb without blemish, a one year old male. According to this rite, you shall also take a young goat
    6: And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month. And the entire multitude of the sons of Israel shall immolate it toward evening
    7: And they shall take from its blood, and place it on both the door posts and the upper threshold of the houses, in which they will consume it
    8: And that night they shall eat the flesh, roasted by fire, and unleavened bread with wild lettuce
    9: You shall not consume anything from it raw, nor boiled in water, but only roasted by fire. You shall devour the head with its feet and entrails
    10: Neither shall there remain anything from it until morning. If anything will have been left over, you shall burn it with fire
    11: Now you shall consume it in this way: You shall gird your waist, and you shall have shoes on your feet, holding staves in your hands, and you shall consume it in haste. For it is the Passover (that is, the Crossing) of the Lord
    12: And I will cross through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from man, even to cattle. And I will bring judgments against all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord
    13: But the blood will be for you as a sign in the buildings where you will be. And I will see the blood, and I will pass over you. And the plague will not be with you to destroy, when I strike the land of Egypt
    14: Then you shall have this day as a memorial, and you shall celebrate it as a solemnity to the Lord, in your generations, as an everlasting devotion
    15: For seven days, you shall eat unleavened bread. On the first day there shall be no leaven in your houses. Whoever will consume anything leavened, from the first day, even until the seventh day, that soul shall perish from Israel
    16: The first day shall be holy and solemn, and the seventh day shall be venerated with the same festivity. You shall do no work in these days, except that which pertains to the eating
    17: And you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread. For on this same day, I will lead your army out of the land of Egypt, and you shall keep this day, in your generations, as a perpetual ritual
    18: In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, toward evening, you shall consume the unleavened bread, until the twenty-first day of the same month, toward evening
    19: For seven days, there shall not be found leaven in your houses. Whoever will eat leaven, his soul will perish from the assembly of Israel, as much with the newcomers as with the natives of the land
    20: You shall not consume any leaven. In all your dwelling places, you shall eat unleavened bread.
    21: Then Moses called all the elders of the sons of Israel, and he said to them: “Go, taking an animal by your families, and sacrifice the Passover
    22: And dip a little bundle of hyssop in the blood which is at the entrance, and sprinkle the upper threshold with it, and both of the door posts. Let none of you go out of the door of his house until morning
    23: For the Lord will cross through, striking the Egyptians. And when he will see the blood on the upper threshold, and on both the door posts, he will pass over the door of the house and not permit the Striker to enter into your houses or to do harm
    24: You shall keep this word as a law for you and for your sons, forever
    25: And when you have entered into the land that the Lord will give to you, just as he has promised, you shall observe these ceremonies
    26: And when your sons will say to you, ‘What is the meaning of this religious observance?
    27: You shall say to them: ‘It is the victim of the crossing of the Lord, when he passed over the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt, striking the Egyptians, and freeing our houses.’ ” And the people, bowing down, worshipped
    28: And the sons of Israel, departing, did just as the Lord had instructed Moses and Aaron
    29: Then it happened, in the middle of the night: the Lord struck down every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the captive woman who was in prison, and all the firstborn of the cattle
    30: And Pharaoh rose up in the night, and all his servants, and all of Egypt. And there arose a great outcry in Egypt. For there was not a house in which no one lay dead
    31: And Pharaoh, calling Moses and Aaron in the night, said: “Rise up and go forth from among my people, you and the sons of Israel. Go, sacrifice to the Lord, just as you say
    32: Your sheep and herds take along with you, as you requested, and as you go away, bless me.
    33: And the Egyptians urged the people to go away from the land quickly, saying, “We will all die.
    34: Therefore, the people took bread dough before it was leavened. And tying it in their cloaks, they placed it on their shoulders
    35: And the sons of Israel did just as Moses had instructed. And they petitioned the Egyptians for vessels of silver and of gold, and very many garments
    36: Then the Lord granted favor to the people in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they bestowed on them. And they despoiled the Egyptians
    37: And the sons of Israel set out from Rameses to Soccoth, about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides little ones
    38: But also an innumerable mix of common people ascended with them, sheep and herds and animals of diverse kinds, exceedingly many
    39: And they baked the bread, which a little while ago they had taken out of Egypt as dough. And they made unleavened bread baked under ashes. For it was not able to be leavened, with the Egyptians compelling them to leave and not permitting them to cause any delay. Neither did they have occasion to prepare any meat
    40: Now the habitation of the sons of Israel, while they remained in Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years
    41: Having been completed, on the same day all the army of the Lord departed from the land of Egypt
    42: This night is a worthy observance of the Lord, when he led them out of the land of Egypt. This all the sons of Israel must observe in their generations
    43: And the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron: “This is the religious observance of the Passover. No foreigner shall eat from it
    44: But every bought servant shall be circumcised, and so he may eat from it
    45: The newcomer and the hired hand shall not eat from it
    46: In one house it shall be eaten; you shall not carry its flesh outside, nor shall you break its bone
    47: The entire assembly of the sons of Israel shall do this
    48: And if any sojourner will be willing to cross over into your settlement, and to keep the Passover of the Lord, all his males shall first be circumcised, and then he shall celebrate the rite. And he shall be just like a native of the land. But if any man is not circumcised, he shall not eat from it
    49: The law shall be the same for the native born and for the settler who sojourns with you.
    50: And all the sons of Israel did just as the Lord had instructed Moses and Aaron
    51: And on the same day, the Lord led the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their companies

End of day 16.