Day 92:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Then David took counsel with the tribunes, and the centurions, and all the leaders
    2: And he said to the entire assembly of Israel: “If it pleases you, and if the words that I speak come from the Lord our God, let us send to the remainder of our brothers, in all the regions of Israel, and to the priests and Levites who live in the suburbs of the cities, so that they may gather to us
    3: And let us bring back the ark of our God to us. For we did not seek it during the days of Saul.
    4: And the entire multitude responded that it should be done. For the word had pleased all the people
    5: Therefore, David gathered all of Israel, from Shihor of Egypt even to the entrance of Hamath, so as to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim
    6: And David ascended with all the men of Israel to the hill of Kiriath-jearim, which is in Judah, so that he might bring from there the ark of the Lord God, sitting upon the Cherubim, where his name is invoked
    7: And they placed the ark of God upon a new cart from the house of Abinadab. Then Uzzah and his brother drove the cart
    8: Now David and all of Israel were playing before God, with all of their ability, in songs, and with harps, and psalteries, and timbrels, and cymbals, and trumpets
    9: And when they had arrived at the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah reached out his hand, so that he might support the ark. For indeed, the ox being wanton had caused it to incline a little
    10: And so the Lord became angry against Uzzah. And he struck him down because he had touched the ark. And he died there before the Lord
    11: And David was greatly saddened because the Lord had divided Uzzah. And he called that place ‘the Division of Uzzah,’ even to the present day
    12: And then he feared God, at that time, saying: “How will I be able to bring in the ark of God to myself?
    13: And for this reason, he did not bring it to himself, that is, into the City of David. Instead, he turned aside to the house of Obededom, the Gittite
    14: Therefore, the ark of God dwelt in the house of Obededom for three months. And the Lord blessed his house and all that he had

  Chapter 14.

    1: Also, Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, and cedar wood, and artisans of walls and of wood, so that they might build a house for him
    2: And David realized that the Lord had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom had been lifted up over his people Israel
    3: Also, David took other wives in Jerusalem. And he conceived sons and daughters
    4: And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua and Shobab, Nathan and Solomon
    5: Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet
    6: as well as Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia
    7: Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet
    8: Then, hearing that David had been anointed as king over all of Israel, all the Philistines ascended so that they might seek him. But when David had heard of it, he went out to meet them
    9: Now the Philistines, arriving, spread out in the Valley of the Rephaim
    10: And so David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I ascend to the Philistines, and will you deliver them into my hand?” And the Lord said to him, “Ascend, and I will deliver them into your hand.
    11: And when they had ascended to Baal-perazim, David struck them there, and he said: “God has divided my enemies by my hand, just as waters are divided.” And therefore the name of that place was called Baal-perazim
    12: And they left behind their gods in that place, and so David ordered them to be burned
    13: And then, at another time, the Philistines invaded, and they spread out in the valley
    14: And again, David consulted God. And God said to him: “You shall not ascend after them. Draw away from them. And you shall come against them opposite the balsam trees
    15: And when you hear a sound approaching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall go forth to war. For God has gone forth before you, so that he may strike down the army of the Philistines.
    16: Therefore, David did just as God had instructed him. And he struck down the army of the Philistines, from Gibeon as far as Gazera
    17: And the name of David became well-known in all the regions. And the Lord placed the fear of him over all the nations

  Chapter 15.

    1: Also, he made houses for himself in the City of David. And built a place for the ark of God, and he set up a tent for it
    2: Then David said: “It is illicit for anyone to carry the ark of God except the Levites, whom the Lord chose to carry it and to minister to himself, even unto eternity.
    3: And he gathered all of Israel in Jerusalem, so that the ark of God might be brought into its place, which he had prepared for it
    4: Certainly, there were both the sons of Aaron and the Levites
    5: From the sons of Kohath, Uriel was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred twenty
    6: From the sons of Merari: Asaiah was the leader, and his brothers were two hundred twenty
    7: From the sons of Gershom: Joel was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred thirty
    8: From the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah was the leader, and his brothers were two hundred
    9: From the sons of Hebron: Eliel was the leader, and his brothers were eighty
    10: From the sons of Uzziel: Amminadab was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred twelve
    11: And David summoned the priests, Zadok and Abiathar, and the Levites: Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab
    12: And he said to them: “You who are the leaders of the Levitical families, be sanctified with your brothers, and bring the ark of the Lord God of Israel to the place that has been prepared for it
    13: Otherwise, as it was before, when the Lord struck us because you were not present, so also it might be now, if we do what is illicit.
    14: Therefore, the priests and the Levites were sanctified, so that they might carry the ark of the Lord God of Israel
    15: And the sons of Levi took the ark of God, just as Moses had instructed, in accord with the word of the Lord, upon their shoulders by the bars
    16: And David spoke to the leaders of the Levites, so that they might appoint, from their brothers, singers with musical instruments, specifically, psalteries, and harps, and cymbals, so that a joyful noise might resound on high
    17: And they appointed from the Levites: Heman, the son of Joel; and from his brothers, Asaph, the son of Berechiah; and truly, from their brothers, the sons of Merari: Ethan, the son of Kushaiah
    18: And with them were their brothers in the second rank: Zechariah, and Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jahiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, who were gatekeepers
    19: Now the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were sounding out with cymbals of brass
    20: And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah were singing mysteries with the psalteries
    21: Then Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah and Obededom, and Jeiel and Azaziah were singing a song of victory with the harps, for the octave
    22: Now Chenaniah, the leader of the Levites, was foremost over the prophecies, in order to mark out in advance the melodies. For indeed, he was very skillful
    23: And Berechiah and Elkanah were porters of the ark
    24: And the priests, Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, were sounding the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obededom and Jehiah were porters of the ark
    25: Therefore, David, and all those greater by birth of Israel, and the tribunes, went to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the house of Obededom with rejoicing
    26: And when God had assisted the Levites, who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord, they immolated seven bulls and seven rams
    27: Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah, the leader of the prophecy among the singers. But David was also clothed with a linen ephod
    28: And all of Israel were leading back the ark of the covenant of the Lord with jubilation, sounding out with the noise of horns, and trumpets, and cymbals, and psalteries, and harps
    29: And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord had arrived in the City of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, gazing through a window, saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart

  Chapter 16.

    1: And so they took the ark of God, and they set it in the midst of the tabernacle, which David had pitched for it. And they offered holocausts and peace offerings before God
    2: And when David had completed offering holocausts and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord
    3: And he divided to every single one, from men even to women, a twist of bread, and a piece of roasted beef, and fine wheat flour fried with oil
    4: And he appointed some from the Levites who would minister before the ark of the Lord, and commemorate his works, and glorify and praise the Lord, the God of Israel
    5: Asaph was the leader, and second to him was Zechariah. In addition, there were Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obededom. And Jeiel was over the instruments of the psaltery and the harps. But Asaph sounded out with the cymbals
    6: Truly, the priests, Benaiah and Jahaziel, were to sound the trumpet continually before the ark of the covenant of the Lord
    7: In that day, David made Asaph the leader, in order to confess to the Lord with his brothers
    8: “Confess to the Lord, and invoke his name. Make known his endeavors among the peoples
    9: Sing to him, and sing psalms to him, and describe all his miracles
    10: Praise his holy name! Let the heart of those who seek the Lord rejoice
    11: Seek the Lord and his virtue. Seek his face always
    12: Remember his miracles, which he has accomplished, his signs, and the judgments of his mouth
    13: O offspring of Israel, his servants! O sons of Jacob, his elect
    14: He is the Lord our God. His judgments are throughout all the earth
    15: Remember forever his covenant, the word that he instructed unto a thousand generations
    16: the covenant that he formed with Abraham, and his oath with Isaac
    17: And he appointed the same to Jacob as a precept, and to Israel as an everlasting pact
    18: saying: ‘To you, I will give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance.
    19: At that time, they were small in number, they were few and were settlers there
    20: And they passed through, from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people
    21: He did not permit anyone to falsely accuse them. Instead, he reproved kings on their behalf
    22: ‘Do not touch my Christ. And do not malign my prophets.
    23: Sing to the Lord, all the earth! Announce his salvation, from day to day
    24: Describe his glory among the Gentiles, his miracles among all the peoples
    25: For the Lord is great and exceedingly praiseworthy. And he is terrible, above all gods
    26: For all the gods of the peoples are idols. But the Lord made the heavens
    27: Confession and magnificence are before him. Strength and gladness are in his place
    28: Bring to the Lord, O families of the peoples, bring to the Lord glory and dominion
    29: Give glory to the Lord, to his name. Lift up sacrifice, and approach before his sight. And adore the Lord in holy attire
    30: Let all the earth be moved before his face. For he founded the globe immoveable
    31: Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth exult. And let them say among the nations, ‘The Lord has reigned.
    32: Let the sea roar, with all its plenitude. Let the fields exult, with all that is in them
    33: Then the trees of the forest will give praise before the Lord. For he comes to judge the earth
    34: Confess to the Lord, for he is good. For his mercy is eternal
    35: And say: ‘Save us, O God our savior! And gather us together, and rescue us from the nations, so that we may confess to your holy name, and may exult in your songs
    36: Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from eternity to eternity.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen,’ and let them sing a hymn to the Lord.
    37: And so, there before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, he left Asaph and his brothers, so that they might minister in the sight of the ark continually, throughout each day, and in their turns
    38: Now Obededom and his brothers were sixty-eight. And he appointed Obededom, the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah to be porters
    39: But Zadok the priest, and his brothers the priests, were before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place, which was in Gibeon
    40: so that they could offer holocausts to the Lord upon the altar of holocausts continually, morning and evening, according to all that was written in the law of the Lord, which he instructed to Israel
    41: And after him, Heman, and Jeduthun, and the remainder of the elect, each one by his name, were appointed to confess to the Lord: “For his mercy endures forever.
    42: Also Heman and Jeduthun sounded the trumpet, and they played upon the cymbals, and upon every kind of musical instrument, in order to sing praises to God. But the sons of Jeduthun he made to be porters
    43: And all the people returned to their houses, and David also, so that he might bless his own house too

End of day 92.