Day 184:

Reading Ecclesiastes, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: I have drawn all these things through my heart, so that I might carefully understand. There are just men as well as wise men, and their works are in the hand of God. And yet a man does not know so much as whether he is worthy of love or of hatred
    2: But all things in the future remain uncertain, because all things happen equally to the just and to the impious, to the good and to the bad, to the pure and to the impure, to those who offer sacrifices and to those who despise sacrifices. As the good are, so also are sinners. As those who commit perjury are, so also are those who swear to the truth
    3: This is a very great burden among all things that are done under the sun: that the same things happen to everyone. And when the hearts of the sons of men are filled with malice and contempt in their lives, afterwards they shall be dragged down to hell
    4: There is no one who lives forever, or who even has confidence in this regard. A living dog is better than a dead lion
    5: For the living know that they themselves will die, yet truly the dead know nothing anymore, nor do they have any recompense. For the memory of them is forgotten
    6: Likewise, love and hatred and envy have all perished together, nor have they any place in this age and in the work which is done under the sun
    7: So then, go and eat your bread with rejoicing, and drink your wine with gladness. For your works are pleasing to God
    8: Let your garments be white at all times, and let not oil be absent from your head
    9: Enjoy life with the wife whom you love, all the days of your uncertain life which have been given to you under the sun, during all the time of your vanity. For this is your portion in life and in your labor, with which you labor under the sun
    10: Whatever your hand is able to do, do it earnestly. For neither work, nor reason, nor wisdom, nor knowledge will exist in death, toward which you are hurrying
    11: I turned myself toward another thing, and I saw that under the sun, the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the wise, nor wealth to the learned, nor grace to the skilful: but there is a time and an end for all these things
    12: Man does not know his own end. But, just as fish are caught with a hook, and birds are captured with a snare, so are men seized in the evil time, when it will suddenly overwhelm them
    13: This wisdom, likewise, I have seen under the sun, and I have examined it intensely
    14: There was a small city, with a few men in it. There came against it a great king, who surrounded it, and built fortifications all around it, and the blockade was completed
    15: And there was found within it, a poor and wise man, and he freed the city through his wisdom, and nothing was recorded afterward of that poor man
    16: And so, I declared that wisdom is better than strength. But how is it, then, that the wisdom of the poor man is treated with contempt, and his words are not heeded
    17: The words of the wise are heard in silence, more so than the outcry of a prince among the foolish
    18: Wisdom is better than weapons of war. And whoever offends in one thing, shall lose many good things

  Chapter 10.

    1: Dying flies ruin the sweetness of the ointment. Wisdom and glory is more precious than a brief and limited foolishness
    2: The heart of a wise man is in his right hand, and the heart of a foolish man is in his left hand
    3: Moreover, as a foolish man is walking along the way, even though he himself is unwise, he considers everyone to be foolish
    4: If the spirit of one who holds authority rises over you, do not leave your place, because attentiveness will cause the greatest sins to cease
    5: There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, proceeding from the presence of a prince, as if by mistake
    6: a foolish man appointed to a high dignity, and the rich sitting beneath him
    7: I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking on the ground like servants
    8: Whoever digs a pit will fall into it. And whoever tears apart a hedge, a snake will bite him
    9: Whoever carries away stones will be harmed by them. And whoever cuts down trees will be wounded by them
    10: If the iron is dull, and if it was not that way before, but has been made dull by much labor, then it will be sharpened. And wisdom will follow after diligence
    11: Whoever slanders in secret is nothing less than a snake that bites silently
    12: Words from the mouth of a wise man are graceful, but the lips of a foolish man will throw him down with violence
    13: At the beginning of his words is foolishness, and at the end of his talk is a most grievous error
    14: The fool multiplies his words. A man does not know what has been before him, and who is able to reveal to him what will be in the future after him
    15: The hardship of the foolish will afflict those who do not know to go into the city
    16: Woe to you, the land whose king is a boy, and whose princes consume in the morning
    17: Blessed is the land whose king is noble, and whose princes eat at the proper time, for refreshment and not for self-indulgence
    18: By laziness, a framework shall be brought down, and by the weakness of hands, a house shall collapse through
    19: While laughing, they make bread and wine, so that the living may feast. And all things are obedient to money
    20: You should not slander the king, even in your thoughts, and you should not speak evil of a wealthy man, even in your private chamber. For even the birds of the air will carry your voice, and whatever has wings will announce your opinion

  Chapter 11.

    1: Cast your bread over running waters. For, after a long time, you shall find it again
    2: Give a portion to seven, and indeed even to eight. For you do not know what evil may be upon the earth in the future
    3: If the clouds have been filled, they will pour forth rain upon the earth. If a tree falls to the south, or to the north, or to whatever direction it may fall, there it shall remain
    4: Whoever heeds the wind will not sow. And whoever considers the clouds will never reap
    5: In the same manner that you do not know the way of the spirit, nor the way that bones are joined together in the womb of a pregnant woman, so you do not know the works of God, who is the Maker of all
    6: In the morning, sow your seed, and in the evening, do not let your hand cease. For you do not know which of these may rise up, the one or the other. But if both rise up together, so much the better
    7: Light is pleasant, and it is delightful for the eyes to see the sun
    8: If a man lives for many years, and if he has rejoiced in all of these, he must remember the many days of the dark times, which, when they will have arrived, will accuse the past of vanity
    9: So then, rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart remain in what is good during the days of your youth. And walk in the ways of your heart, and with the perception of your eyes. And know that, concerning all these things, God will bring you to judgment
    10: Remove anger from your heart, and set aside evil from your flesh. For youth and pleasure are empty

  Chapter 12.

    1: Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before the time of affliction arrives and the years draw near, about which you will say, “These do not please me.
    2: Before the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars are darkened and the clouds return after the rain
    3: when the guardians of the house will tremble, and the strongest men will waver, and those who grind grain will be idle, except for a small number, and those who look through the keyholes will be darkened
    4: And they will close the doors to the street, when the voice of he who grinds the grain will be humbled, and they will be disturbed at the sound of a flying thing, and all the daughters of song shall become deaf
    5: Likewise, they will fear the things above them, and they will dread the way. The almond tree will flourish; the locust will be fattened; and the caper plant will be scattered, because man shall go into the house of his eternity, and the mourners shall wander around in the street
    6: Before the silver cord is broken, and the golden band pulls away, and the pitcher is crushed over the fountain, and the wheel is broken above the cistern
    7: and the dust returns to its earth, from which it was, and the spirit returns to God, who granted it
    8: Vanity of vanities, said Ecclesiastes, and all is vanity
    9: And since Ecclesiastes was very wise, he taught the people, and he described what he had accomplished. And while searching, he composed many parables
    10: He sought useful words, and he wrote most righteous words, which were full of truth
    11: The words of the wise are like a goad, and like nails deeply fastened, which, through the counsel of teachers, are set forth by one pastor
    12: You should require no more than this, my son. For there is no end to the making of many books. And excessive study is an affliction to the flesh
    13: Let us all listen together to the end of the discourse. Fear God, and observe his commandments. This is everything for man
    14: And so, for all that is done and for each error, God will bring judgment: whether it was good or evil

End of day 184.