Day 22:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: “Go forth, ascend from this place, you and your people, whom you led away from the land of Egypt, into the land that I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying: To your offspring, I will give it
    2: And I will send an Angel to precede you, so that I may cast out the Canaanite, and the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite
    3: and so that you may enter into a land flowing with milk and honey. For I will not go up with you, since you are a stiff-necked people, lest perhaps I may destroy you on the way.
    4: And upon hearing this very bad news, the people mourned; and no one put on his finery according to custom
    5: And the Lord said to Moses: “Say to the sons of Israel: You are a stiff-necked people. I should at once go up into your midst and destroy you. Now immediately put aside your ornaments, so that I may know what to do to you.
    6: Therefore, the sons of Israel put aside their ornaments before Mount Horeb
    7: Also, Moses took the tabernacle and pitched it beyond the camp at a distance, and he called its name: ‘Tabernacle of the Covenant.’ And all the people, who had any kind of question, went out to the Tabernacle of the Covenant, beyond the camp
    8: And when Moses went out to the tabernacle, all the people rose up, and each one stood at the door of his pavilion, and they beheld the back of Moses until he entered the tent
    9: And when he had gone into the Tabernacle of the Covenant, the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the door, and he spoke with Moses
    10: And all discerned that the pillar of cloud stood at the door of the Tabernacle. And they stood and worshipped at the doors of their tents
    11: But the Lord spoke to Moses face to face, just as a man is used to speaking to his friend. And when he returned to the camp, his minister Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not withdraw from the Tabernacle
    12: Then Moses said to the Lord: “You instruct me to lead this people away, and you do not reveal to me whom you will send with me, particularly since you have said: ‘I know you by name, and you have found favor before me.
    13: If, therefore, I have found favor in your sight, show your face to me, so that I may know you and may find grace before your eyes. Look favorably on your people, this nation.
    14: And the Lord said, “My face will precede you, and I will give you rest.
    15: And Moses said: “If you will not yourself precede us, then do not lead us away from this place
    16: For how will we be able to know, I and your people, that we have found grace in your sight, unless you walk with us, so that we may be glorified out of all the people who live upon the earth?
    17: Then the Lord said to Moses: “This word also, which you have spoken, I will do. For you have found grace before me, and I have known you by name.
    18: And he said, “Show me your glory.
    19: He responded: “I will show you all that is good, and I will call out with the name of the Lord before you. And I will take pity on whomever I will, and I will be lenient to whomever it will please me.
    20: And again he said: “You are not able to see my face. For man shall not see me and live.
    21: And again, he said: “Behold, there is a place with me, and you shall stand upon the rock
    22: And when my glory will cross over, I will set you in a cleft of the rock, and I will protect you with my right hand, until I pass by
    23: And I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back. But my face you are not able to see.

  Chapter 34.

    1: And after this he said: “Cut out for yourself two tablets of stone similar to the first ones, and I will write upon them the words which were held on the tablets that you broke
    2: Be prepared in the morning, so that you may immediately ascend onto Mount Sinai, and you shall stand with me on the summit of the mountain
    3: Let no one ascend with you, and do not let anyone be seen throughout the entire mountain. Likewise, do not let the oxen or the sheep pasture up against it.
    4: And so he cut out two tablets of stone, like those that were before. And rising up in the night, he ascended onto Mount Sinai, just as the Lord had instructed him, carrying with him the tablets
    5: And when the Lord had descended in a cloud, Moses stood with him, calling upon the name of the Lord
    6: And as he was crossing before him, he said: “The Ruler, the Lord God, merciful and lenient, patient and full of compassion and also truthful
    7: who preserves mercy a thousand fold, who takes away iniquity, and wickedness, and also sin; and with you no one, in and of himself, is innocent. You render the iniquity of the fathers to the sons, and also to their descendents to the third and fourth generation.
    8: And hurrying, Moses bowed down prostrate to the ground; and worshiping
    9: he said: “If I have found grace in your sight, O Lord, I beg you to walk with us, (for the people are stiff-necked) and take away our iniquities and our sin, and so possess us.
    10: The Lord responded: “I will enter into a pact in the sight of all. I will perform signs which have never been seen on earth, nor among any nation, so that this people, in whose midst you are, may discern the terrible work of the Lord that I will do
    11: Observe everything that I command you this day. I myself will drive out before your face the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite
    12: Beware that you do not ever join in friendship with the inhabitants of that land, which may be your ruin
    13: But destroy their altars, break their statues, and cut down their sacred groves
    14: Do not be willing to worship any strange god. The jealous Lord is his name. God is a rival
    15: Do not enter into a pact with the men of those regions, lest, when they will have fornicated with their gods and worshiped their idols, someone might call upon you to eat from what was immolated
    16: Neither shall you take a wife for your son from their daughters, lest, after they themselves have fornicated, they may cause your sons also to fornicate with their gods
    17: You shall not make for yourselves any molten gods
    18: You shall keep the solemnity of unleavened bread. For seven days, you shall eat unleavened bread, just as I instructed you, in the time of the month of what is new. For in the month of springtime you departed from Egypt
    19: All of the male kind, which open the womb, shall be mine: from all the animals, as much of oxen as of sheep, it shall be mine
    20: The firstborn of a donkey, you shall redeem with a sheep. But if you will not give a price for it, it shall be slain. The firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. You shall not appear empty in my sight
    21: For six days you shall work. On the seventh day you shall cease to cultivate and to harvest
    22: You shall observe the Solemnity of Weeks with the first-fruits of the grain from the harvest of your wheat, and a Solemnity when the time of the year returns and everything is stored away
    23: Three times a year, all your males shall appear in the sight of the Almighty, the Lord God of Israel
    24: For when I will have taken away the nations before your face, and enlarged your borders, no one shall lie in wait against your land when you will go up to appear in the sight of the Lord your God, three times a year
    25: You shall not immolate the blood of my victim over leaven; and there shall not remain, in the morning, any of the victim of the Solemnity of the Passover
    26: The first of the fruits of your land you shall offer in the house of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a young goat in the milk of its mother.
    27: And the Lord said to Moses, “Write these words to you, through which I have formed a covenant, both with you and with Israel.
    28: Therefore, he was in that place with the Lord for forty days and forty nights; he did not eat bread and he did not drink water, and he wrote on the tablets the ten words of the covenant
    29: And when Moses descended from Mount Sinai, he held the two tablets of the testimony, and he did not know that his face was radiant from the sharing of words with the Lord
    30: Then Aaron and the sons of Israel, seeing that the face of Moses was radiant, were afraid to approach close by
    31: And being called by him, they turned back, both Aaron and the leaders of the assembly. And after he had spoken to them
    32: all the sons of Israel also now came to him. And he instructed them in all the things that he had heard from the Lord on Mount Sinai
    33: And having completed these words, he placed a veil over his face
    34: But when he entered to the Lord and was speaking with him, he took it off, until he exited. And then he spoke to the sons of Israel all that had been commanded to him
    35: And they saw that the face of Moses, when he came out, was radiant, but he covered his face again, whenever he spoke to them

  Chapter 35.

    1: Therefore, when all the multitude of the sons of Israel had gathered together, he said to them: “These are the things that the Lord has ordered to be done
    2: For six days you shall do work; the seventh day, the Sabbath and the rest of the Lord, will be holy to you; whoever will have done any work in it shall be killed
    3: You shall not kindle a fire in any of your dwelling places throughout the day of the Sabbath.
    4: And Moses said to the entire crowd of the sons of Israel: “This is the word which the Lord has instructed, saying
    5: Separate from among you the first-fruits to the Lord. Let all who are willing and have a ready soul offer these to the Lord: gold, and silver, and brass
    6: hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine linen, the hair of goats
    7: and the skins of rams, dyed red, and violet skins, setim wood
    8: and oil to prepare lights and to produce ointment, and most sweet incense
    9: onyx stones and gems, to adorn the ephod and the breastplate
    10: And whoever among you is wise, let him come and make what the Lord has commanded
    11: the tabernacle, certainly, and its roof, and also the covering, the rings, and the panels with the bars, the tent pegs and the bases
    12: the ark and its bars, the propitiatory, and the veil that is drawn before it
    13: the table with its bars and vessels, and the bread of the presence
    14: the lampstand to hold up the lights, its vessels and lamps, and the oil to the nourish the fire
    15: the altar of incense and its bars, and the oil of unction, and the incense of aromatics, the tent at the door of the tabernacle
    16: the altar of holocaust and its grate of brass, with the bars and vessels, the washtub and its base
    17: the curtains of the atrium, with the columns and the bases, the hanging at the doors of the vestibule
    18: the tent pegs of the tabernacle and the atrium, with their little cords
    19: the vestments, which are to be used in the ministry of the Sanctuary, the vestments of Aaron, the high priest, as well as those of his sons, in order to exercise the priesthood to me.
    20: And all the multitude of the sons of Israel, departing from the sight of Moses
    21: offered the first-fruits to the Lord with a most ready and devout mind, to accomplish the work of the tabernacle of the testimony. Whatever was needed for worship and for the holy vestments
    22: men along with women provided: arm bands and earrings, rings and bracelets. And every vessel of gold was separated, to be donated to the Lord
    23: If anyone had hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, fine linen and the hair of goats, the skins of rams, dyed red, and violet skins
    24: metal of silver and brass, they offered it to the Lord, along with setim wood for various uses
    25: But the skillful women also gave whatever they had spun: hyacinth, purple, and vermillion, as well as fine linen
    26: and the hair of goats, donating everything of their own accord
    27: Yet truly, the leaders offered onyx stones and gems, for the ephod and the breastplate
    28: and aromatics and oil, to maintain the lights, and to prepare ointment, and also to produce incense with a most sweet odor
    29: All the men and women offered donations with a devout mind, so that the works might be done which the Lord had ordered by the hand of Moses. All the sons of Israel dedicated voluntary offerings to the Lord
    30: And Moses said to the sons of Israel: “Behold, the Lord has called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah
    31: and he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge, and all teaching
    32: to design and to fashion, with gold and silver and brass
    33: and with engraving stones, and with the skill of a carpenter. Whatever can be skillfully invented
    34: he has given to his heart. It is likewise with Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach from the tribe of Dan
    35: He has taught both of them wisdom, in order to do the work of carpentry, tapestry, and embroidery, from hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine linen, and every textile, and to discover whatever may be new.

  Chapter 36.

    1: Therefore, Bezalel, and Oholiab, and every wise man, to whom the Lord gave wisdom and intelligence, so as to know how to work skillfully, made that which was necessary for the uses of the Sanctuary and which the Lord had instructed
    2: And when Moses had called them and every man of learning, to whom the Lord had given wisdom, and who, of their own accord, had offered themselves in order to accomplish this work
    3: he handed over to them all the donations of the sons of Israel. And while they were pursuing this work, the people offered what they had vowed each day, in the morning
    4: The artisans were compelled by this to g
    5: to Moses and to say, “The people offer more than is needed.
    6: Therefore, Moses ordered this to be recited, with a voice of proclamation: “Let neither man nor woman offer anything further for the work of the Sanctuary.” And so they ceased from offering gifts
    7: because what was offered was sufficient and was more than an abundance
    8: And all those who were wise of heart, in order to accomplish the work of the tabernacle, made ten curtains of fine twisted linen, and hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, with diverse workmanship by the art of embroidery
    9: Each of these was twenty-eight cubits in length, and in width, four. All the curtains were of one measure
    10: And he joined five curtains to one another, and the other five he coupled to one another
    11: He also made loops of hyacinth along the edge of one curtain on both sides, and similarly along the edge of the other curtain
    12: so that the loops might meet against one another and might be joined together
    13: For these, he also cast fifty gold rings, which would retain the loops of the curtains and so make the tabernacle one
    14: He also made eleven canopies from the hair of goats, in order to cover the roof of the tabernacle
    15: one canopy held in length thirty cubits, and in width four cubits. All the canopies were of one measure
    16: Five of these he joined by themselves, and the other six separately
    17: And he made fifty loops along the edge of one canopy, and fifty along the edge of the other canopy, so that they might be joined to one another
    18: and fifty buckles of brass, with which the roof might be woven together, so that from all the canopies there would be made one covering
    19: He also made a covering for the tabernacle from the skins of rams, dyed-red; and another cover above it, from violet skins
    20: He also made the standing panels of the tabernacle, from setim wood
    21: Ten cubits was the length of one panel, and one and one half cubits comprised the width
    22: There were two dovetails along every panel, so that one might be joined to the other. Thus did he make all the panels of the tabernacle
    23: Of these, twenty were toward the meridian area, opposite the south
    24: with forty bases of silver. Two bases were set under one panel at each of two sides at the corners, where the joints of the sides terminate in corners
    25: Likewise, at that side of the tabernacle which looks toward the north, he made twenty panels
    26: with forty bases of silver, two bases for each board
    27: Yet truly, opposite the west, that is, toward that part of the tabernacle which looks out toward the sea, he made six panels
    28: and two others at each corner of the tabernacle at the back
    29: which were joined from bottom to top and held together by one joint. So did he make both corners on that side
    30: So then, there were altogether eight panels, and they had sixteen bases of silver, with, of course, two bases under each panel
    31: He also made bars from setim wood: five to hold together the panels at one side of the tabernacle
    32: and five others to fit together the panels of the other side, and, in addition to these, five other bars toward the western area of the tabernacle, opposite the sea
    33: He also made another bar, which came through the middle of the panels from corner to corner
    34: But the panels themselves he overlaid with gold, casting silver bases for them. And he made their rings from gold, through which the bars might be able to be drawn. And he covered the bars themselves with layers of gold
    35: He also made a veil from hyacinth, and purple, from vermillion as well as fine twisted linen, with varied and distinctive embroidery
    36: and four columns of setim wood, which, along with their heads, he overlaid with gold, casting silver bases for them
    37: He also made a tent at the entrance of the tabernacle from hyacinth, purple, vermillion, and fine twisted linen, wrought with embroidery
    38: and five columns with their heads, which he covered with gold, and he cast their bases from brass

End of day 22.