Day 311:

Reading Acts, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Now when they had walked through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they arrived at Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews
    2: Then Paul, according to custom, entered to them. And for three Sabbaths he disputed with them about the Scriptures
    3: interpreting and concluding that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise again from the dead, and that “this is the Jesus Christ, whom I am announcing to you.
    4: And some of them believed and were joined to Paul and Silas, and a great number of these were from the worshipers and the Gentiles, and not a few were noble women
    5: But the Jews, being jealous, and joining with certain evildoers among the common men, caused a disturbance, and they stirred up the city. And taking up a position near the house of Jason, they sought to lead them out to the people
    6: And when they had not found them, they dragged Jason and certain brothers to the rulers of the city, crying out: “For these are the ones who have stirred up the city. And they came here
    7: and Jason has received them. And all these men act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.
    8: And they incited the people. And the rulers of the city, upon hearing these things
    9: and having received an explanation from Jason and the others, released them
    10: Yet truly, the brothers promptly sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea. And when they had arrived, they entered the synagogue of the Jews
    11: But these were more noble than those who were at Thessalonica. They received the Word with all enthusiasm, daily examining the Scriptures to see if these things were so
    12: And indeed, many believed among them, as well as not a few among the honorable Gentile men and women
    13: Then, when the Jews of Thessalonica had realized that the Word of God was also preached by Paul at Beroea, they went there also, stirring up and disturbing the multitude
    14: And then the brothers quickly sent Paul away, so that he might travel by sea. But Silas and Timothy remained there
    15: Then those who were leading Paul brought him as far as Athens. And having received an order from him to Silas and Timothy, that they should come to him quickly, they set out
    16: Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred up within him, seeing the city given over to idolatry
    17: And so, he was disputing with the Jews in the synagogue, and with the worshipers, and in public places, throughout each day, with whomever was there
    18: Now certain Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were arguing with him. And some were saying, “What does this sower of the Word want to say?” Yet others were saying, “He seems to be an announcer for new demons.” For he was announcing to them Jesus and the Resurrection
    19: And apprehending him, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying: “Are we able to know what this new doctrine is, about which you speak
    20: For you bring certain new ideas to our ears. And so we would like to know what these things mean.
    21: (Now all the Athenians, and arriving visitors, were occupying themselves with nothing other than speaking or hearing various new ideas.
    22: But Paul, standing in the middle of the Areopagus, said: “Men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are rather superstitious
    23: For as I was passing by and noticing your idols, I also found an altar, on which was written: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Therefore, what you worship in ignorance, this is what I am preaching to you
    24: the God who made the world and all that is in it, the One who is the Lord of heaven and earth, who does not live in temples made with hands
    25: Neither is he served by the hands of men, as if in need of anything, since it is he who gives to all things life and breath and all else
    26: And he has made, out of one, every family of man: to live upon the face of the entire earth, determining the appointed seasons and the limits of their habitation
    27: so as to seek God, if perhaps they may consider him or find him, though he is not far from each one of us
    28: ‘For in him we live, and move, and exist.’ Just as some of your own poets have said. ‘For we are also of his family.
    29: Therefore, since we are of the family of God, we must not consider gold or silver or precious stones, or the engravings of art and of the imagination of man, to be a representation of what is Divine
    30: And indeed, God, having looked down to see the ignorance of these times, has now announced to men that everyone everywhere should do penance
    31: For he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in equity, through the man whom he has appointed, offering faith to all, by raising him from the dead.
    32: And when they had heard about the Resurrection of the dead, indeed, some were derisive, while others said, “We will listen to you about this again.
    33: So Paul departed from their midst
    34: Yet truly, certain men, adhering to him, did believe. Among these were also Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them

  Chapter 18.

    1: After these things, having departed from Athens, he arrived at Corinth
    2: And upon finding a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, who had recently arrived from Italy with Priscilla his wife, (because Claudius had ordered all Jews to depart from Rome,) he met with them
    3: And because he was of the same trade, he lodged with them and was working. (Now they were tentmakers by trade.
    4: And he was arguing in the synagogue on every Sabbath, introducing the name of the Lord Jesus. And he was persuading Jews and Greeks
    5: And when Silas and Timothy had arrived from Macedonia, Paul stood firm in the Word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ
    6: But since they were contradicting him and blaspheming, he shook out his garments and said to them: “Your blood is on your own heads. I am clean. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles.
    7: And moving from that place, he entered into the house of a certain man, named Titus the Just, a worshiper of God, whose house was adjoined to the synagogue
    8: Now Crispus, a leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, with his entire house. And many of the Corinthians, upon hearing, believed and were baptized
    9: Then the Lord said to Paul, through a vision in the night: “Do not be afraid. Instead, speak out and do not be silent
    10: For I am with you. And no one will take hold of you, so as to do you harm. For many of the people in this city are with me.
    11: Then he settled there for a year and six months, teaching the Word of God among them
    12: But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one accord against Paul. And they brought him to the tribunal
    13: saying, “He persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.
    14: Then, when Paul was beginning to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: “If this were some matter of injustice, or a wicked deed, O noble Jews, I would support you, as is proper
    15: Yet if truly these are questions about a word and names and your law, you should see to it yourselves. I will not be the judge of such things.
    16: And he ordered them from the tribunal
    17: But they, apprehending Sosthenes, a leader of the synagogue, beat him in front of the tribunal. And Gallio showed no concern for these things
    18: Yet truly, Paul, after he had remained for many more days, having said goodbye to the brothers, sailed into Syria, and with him were Priscilla and Aquila. Now he had shaved his head in Cenchreae, for he had made a vow
    19: And he arrived at Ephesus, and he left them behind there. Yet truly, he himself, entering into the synagogue, was disputing with the Jews
    20: Then, although they were asking him to remain for a longer time, he would not agree
    21: Instead, saying goodbye and telling them, “I will return to you again, God willing,” he set out from Ephesus
    22: And after going down to Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem, and he greeted the Church there, and then he descended to Antioch
    23: And having spent some length of time there, he set out, and he walked in order through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples
    24: Now a certain Jew named Apollo, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man who was powerful with the Scriptures, arrived at Ephesus
    25: He was learned in the Way of the Lord. And being fervent in spirit, he was speaking and teaching the things that are of Jesus, but knowing only the baptism of John
    26: And so, he began to act faithfully in the synagogue. And when Priscilla and Aquila had heard him, they took him aside and expounded the Way of the Lord to him more thoroughly
    27: Then, since he wanted to go to Achaia, the brothers wrote an exhortation to the disciples, so that they might accept him. And when he had arrived, he held many discussions with those who had believed
    28: For he was vehemently and publicly reproving the Jews, by revealing through the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ

  Chapter 19.

    1: Now it happened that, while Apollo was at Corinth, Paul, after he had journeyed through the upper regions, arrived at Ephesus. And he met with certain disciples
    2: And he said to them, “After believing, have you received the Holy Spirit?” But they said to him, “We have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.
    3: Yet truly, he said, “Then with what have you been baptized?” And they said, “With the baptism of John.
    4: Then Paul said: “John baptized the people with the baptism of repentance, saying that they should believe in the One who is to come after him, that is, in Jesus.
    5: Upon hearing these things, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus
    6: And when Paul had imposed his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came over them. And they were speaking in tongues and prophesying
    7: Now the men were about twelve in all
    8: Then, upon entering the synagogue, he was speaking faithfully for three months, disputing and persuading them about the kingdom of God
    9: But when certain ones became hardened and would not believe, cursing the Way of the Lord in the presence of the multitude, Paul, withdrawing from them, separated the disciples, disputing daily in a certain school of Tyrannus
    10: Now this was done throughout two years, so that all who were living in Asia listened to the Word of the Lord, both Jews and Gentiles
    11: And God was accomplishing powerful and uncommon miracles by the hand of Paul
    12: so much so that even when small cloths and wrappings were brought from his body to the sick, the illnesses withdrew from them and the wicked spirits departed
    13: Then, even some of the traveling Jewish exorcists had attempted to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, “I bind you by oath through Jesus, whom Paul preaches.
    14: And there were certain Jews, the seven sons of Sceva, leaders among the priests, who were acting in this way
    15: But a wicked spirit responded by saying to them: “Jesus I know, and Paul I know. But who are you?
    16: And the man, in whom there was a wicked spirit, leaping at them and getting the better of them both, prevailed against them, so that they fled from that house, naked and wounded
    17: And so, this became known to all the Jews and Gentiles who were living at Ephesus. And a fear fell over them all. And the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified
    18: And many believers were arriving, confessing, and announcing their deeds
    19: Then many of those who had followed odd sects brought together their books, and they burned them in the sight of all. And after determining the value of these, they found the price to be fifty thousand denarii
    20: In this way, the Word of God was increasing strongly and was being confirmed
    21: Then, when these things were completed, Paul decided in the Spirit, after crossing through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying, “Then, after I have been there, it is necessary for me to see Rome also.
    22: But sending two of those who were ministering to him, Timothy and Erastus, into Macedonia, he himself remained for a time in Asia
    23: Now at that time, there occurred no small disturbance concerning the Way of the Lord
    24: For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith making silver shrines for Diana, was providing no small profit to craftsmen
    25: And calling them together, with those who were employed in the same way, he said: “Men, you know that our income is from this craft
    26: And you are seeing and hearing that this man Paul, by persuasion, has turned away a great multitude, not only from Ephesus, but from nearly all of Asia, saying, ‘These things are not gods which have been made by hands.
    27: Thus, not only is this, our occupation, in danger of being brought into repudiation, but also the temple of the great Diana will be reputed as nothing! Then even her majesty, whom all of Asia and the world worships, will begin to be destroyed.
    28: Upon hearing this, they were filled with anger, and they cried out, saying, “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
    29: And the city was filled with confusion. And having seized Gaius and Aristarchus of Macedonia, companions of Paul, they rushed violently, with one accord, into the amphitheatre
    30: Then, when Paul wanted to enter to the people, the disciples would not permit him
    31: And some of the leaders from Asia, who were his friends, also sent to him, requesting that he not present himself in the amphitheatre
    32: But others were crying out various things. For the assembly was in confusion, and most did not know the reason they had been called together
    33: So they dragged Alexander from the crowd, while the Jews were propelling him forward. And Alexander, gesturing with his hand for silence, wanted to give the people an explanation
    34: But as soon as they realized him to be a Jew, all with one voice, for about two hours, were crying out, “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!
    35: And when the scribe had calmed the crowds, he said: “Men of Ephesus, now what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is in the service of the great Diana and of the offspring of Jupiter
    36: Therefore, since these things are not able to be contradicted, it is necessary for you to be calm and to do nothing rash
    37: For you have brought forward these men, who are neither sacrilegious nor blasphemers against your goddess
    38: But if Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a case against anyone, they can convene in the courts, and there are proconsuls. Let them accuse one another
    39: But if you would inquire about other things, this can be decided in a lawful assembly
    40: For now we are in peril of being convicted of sedition over today’s events, since there is no one guilty (against whom we are able to provide evidence) in this gathering.” And when he had said this, he dismissed the assembly

  Chapter 20.

    1: Then, after the tumult ceased, Paul, calling the disciples to himself and exhorting them, said farewell. And he set out, so that he might go into Macedonia
    2: And when he had walked through those areas and had exhorted them with many sermons, he went into Greece
    3: After he had spent three months there, treacheries were planned against him by the Jews, just as he was about to sail into Syria. And having been advised of this, he return through Macedonia
    4: Now those accompanying him were Sopater, the son of Pyrrhus from Beroea; and also the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy; and also Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia
    5: These, after they had gone ahead, waited for us at Troas
    6: Yet truly, we sailed from Philippi, after the days of Unleavened Bread, and in five days we went to them at Troas, where we stayed for seven days
    7: Then, on the first Sabbath, when we had assembled together to break bread, Paul discoursed with them, intending to set out the next day. But he prolonged his sermon into the middle of the night
    8: Now there were plenty of lamps in the upper room, where we were gathered
    9: And a certain adolescent named Eutychus, sitting on the window sill, was being weighed down by a heavy drowsiness (for Paul was preaching at length). Then, as he went to sleep, he fell from the third floor room downward. And when he was lifted up, he was dead
    10: When Paul had gone down to him, he laid himself over him and, embracing him, said, “Do not worry, for his soul is still within him.
    11: And so, going up, and breaking bread, and eating, and having spoken well on until daylight, he then set out
    12: Now they had brought the boy in alive, and they were more than a little consoled
    13: Then we climbed aboard the ship and sailed to Assos, where we were to take in Paul. For so he himself had decided, since he was making the journey by land
    14: And when he had joined us at Assos, we took him in, and we went to Mitylene
    15: And sailing from there, on the following day, we arrived opposite Chios. And next we landed at Samos. And on the following day we went to Miletus
    16: For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he would not be delayed in Asia. For he was hurrying so that, if it were possible for him, he might observe the day of Pentecost at Jerusalem
    17: Then, sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he called those greater by birth in the church
    18: And when they had come to him and were together, he said to them: “You know that from the first day when I entered into Asia, I have been with you, for the entire time, in this manner
    19: serving the Lord, with all humility and despite the tears and trials which befell me from the treacheries of the Jews
    20: how I held back nothing that was of value, how well I have preached to you, and that I have taught you publicly and throughout the houses
    21: testifying both to Jews and to Gentiles about repentance in God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ
    22: And now, behold, being obliged in spirit, I am going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there
    23: except that the Holy Spirit, throughout every city, has cautioned me, saying that chains and tribulations await me at Jerusalem
    24: But I dread none of these things. Neither do I consider my life to be more precious because it is my own, provided that in some way I may complete my own course and that of the ministry of the Word, which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the Gospel of the grace of God
    25: And now, behold, I know that you will no longer see my face, all of you among whom I have traveled, preaching the kingdom of God
    26: For this reason, I call you as witnesses on this very day: that I am clean from the blood of all
    27: For I have not turned aside in the least from announcing every counsel of God to you
    28: Take care of yourselves and of the entire flock, over which the Holy Spirit has stationed you as Bishops to rule the Church of God, which he has purchased by his own blood
    29: I know that after my departure ravenous wolves will enter among you, not sparing the flock
    30: And from among yourselves, men will rise up, speaking perverse things in order to entice disciples after them
    31: Because of this, be vigilant, retaining in memory that throughout three years I did not cease, night and day, with tears, to admonish each and every one of you
    32: And now, I commend you to God and to the Word of his grace. He has the power to build up, and to give an inheritance to all who are sanctified
    33: I have coveted neither silver and gold, nor apparel,
    34: as you yourselves know. For that which was needed by me and by those who are with me, these hands have provided
    35: I have revealed all things to you, because by laboring in this way, it is necessary to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ 
    36: And when he had said these things, kneeling down, he prayed with all of them
    37: Then a great weeping occurred among them all. And, falling upon the neck of Paul, they kissed him
    38: being grieved most of all over the word which he had said, that they would never see his face again. And they brought him to the ship

End of day 311.