Day 10:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: Now Jacob lived in the land of Canaan, where his father sojourned
    2: And these are his generations. Joseph, when he was sixteen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers, when he was still a boy. And he was with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, the wives of his father. And he accused his brothers to their father of a most sinful crime
    3: Now Israel loved Joseph above all his sons, because he had conceived him in his old age. And he made him a tunic, woven of many colors
    4: Then his brothers, seeing that he was loved by his father more than all his other sons, hated him, and they were not able to say anything peacefully to him
    5: Then it also happened that he recounted the vision of a dream to his brothers, for which reason a greater hatred began to be nurtured
    6: And he said to them, “Listen to my dream that I saw
    7: I thought we were binding sheaves in the field. And my sheaf seemed to rise up and stand, and your sheaves, standing in a circle, reverenced my sheaf.
    8: His brothers responded: “Would you be our king? Or will we be subject to your dominion?” Therefore, this matter of his dreams and words provided kindling to their envy and hatred
    9: Likewise, he saw another dream, which he explained to his brothers, saying, “I saw by a dream, as if the sun, and the moon, and eleven stars were reverencing me.
    10: And when he had related this to his father and brothers, his father rebuked him, and he said: “What does it mean to you, this dream that you have seen? Should I, and your mother, and your brothers reverence you upon the earth?
    11: Therefore, his brothers were envious of him. Yet truly, his father considered the matter silently
    12: And while his brothers were lodging at Shechem, pasturing their father’s flocks
    13: Israel said to him: “Your brothers are pasturing the sheep at Shechem. Come, I will send you to them.” And when he answered
    14: “I am ready,” he said to him, “Go, and see if everything is prospering with your brothers and the cattle, and report to me what is happening.” So, having been sent from the valley of Hebron, he arrived at Shechem
    15: And a man found him wandering in a field, and he asked him what he was seeking
    16: So he responded: “I seek my brothers. Tell me where they pasture the flocks.
    17: And the man said to him: “They have withdrawn from this place. But I heard them saying, ‘Let us go to Dothan.’ ” Therefore, Joseph continued on after his brothers, and he found them at Dothan
    18: And, when they had seen him from afar, before he approached them, they decided to kill him
    19: And they said one to another: “Behold, the dreamer approaches
    20: Come, let us kill him and cast him into the old cistern. And let us say: ‘an evil wild beast has devoured him.’ And then it will become apparent what his dreams will do for him.
    21: But Reuben, on hearing this, strove to free him from their hands, and he said
    22: “Do not take away his life, nor shed blood. But throw him into this cistern, which is in the wilderness, and so keep your hands harmless.” But he said this, wanting to rescue him from their hands, so as to return him to his father
    23: And so, as soon as he came to his brothers, they very quickly stripped him of his tunic, which was ankle-length and woven of many colors
    24: and they cast him into an old cistern, which held no water
    25: And sitting down to eat bread, they saw some Ishmaelites, travelers coming from Gilead, with their camels, carrying spices, and resin, and oil of myrrh into Egypt
    26: Therefore, Judah said to his brothers: “What will it profit us, if we kill our brother and conceal his blood
    27: It is better that he be sold to the Ishmaelites, and then our hands will not be defiled. For he is our brother and our flesh.” His brothers agreed to his words
    28: And when the Midianite merchants were passing by, they drew him from the cistern, and they sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver. And these led him into Egypt
    29: And Reuben, returning to the cistern, did not find the boy
    30: And rending his garments, he went to his brothers and said, “The boy is not present, and so where shall I go?
    31: Then they took his tunic, and they dipped it in the blood of a young goat, which they had killed
    32: sending those who carried it to their father, and they said: “We found this. See whether it is the tunic of your son or not.
    33: And when the father acknowledged it, he said: “It is the tunic of my son. An evil wild beast has eaten him; a beast has devoured Joseph.
    34: And tearing his garments, he was clothed in haircloth, mourning his son for a long time
    35: Then, when all of his sons gathered together to ease their father’s sorrow, he was not willing to accept consolation, but he said: “I will descend in mourning to my son in the underworld.” And while he persevered in weeping
    36: the Midianites in Egypt sold Joseph to Potiphar, a eunuch of Pharaoh, instructor of the soldiers

  Chapter 38.

    1: About the same time, Judah, descending from his brothers, turned toward an Adullamite man, named Hirah
    2: And he saw there the daughter of a man called Shua, of Canaan. And taking her as a wife, he entered to her
    3: And she conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Er
    4: And conceiving offspring again, having given birth to a son, she called him Onan
    5: Likewise, she bore a third, whom she called Shelah, after whose birth, she ceased to bear any more
    6: Then Judah gave a wife to his first born Er, whose name was Tamar
    7: And it also happened that Er, the first born of Judah, was wicked in the sight of the Lord and was killed by him
    8: Therefore, Judah said to his son Onan: “Enter to the wife of your brother, and associate with her, so that you may raise offspring to your brother.
    9: He, knowing that the sons to be born would not be his, when he entered to the wife of his brother, he spilled his seed on the ground, lest children should be born in his brother’s name
    10: And for this reason, the Lord struck him down, because he did a detestable thing
    11: Because of this matter, Judah said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, “Be a widow in your father’s house, until my son Shelah grows up.” For he was afraid, lest he also might die, just as his brothers did. She went away, and she lived in her father’s house
    12: Then, after many days had passed, the daughter of Shua, the wife of Judah, died. And when he accepted consolation after his mourning, he went up to the shearers of his sheep at Timnah, he and Hirah, the herdsman of the Adullamite flock
    13: And it was reported to Tamar that her father-in-law had gone up to Timnah to shear the sheep
    14: And storing away the garments of her widowhood, she took up a veil. And changing her clothing, she sat at the crossroad that leads to Timnah, because Shelah had grown up, and she had not received him as a husband
    15: And when Judah saw her, he thought her to be a harlot. For she had covered her face, lest she be recognized
    16: And entering to her, he said, “Permit me to join with you.” For he did not know her to be his daughter-in-law. And she responded, “What will you give to me, to enjoy me as a concubine?
    17: He said, “I will send you a young goat from the flock.” And again, she said, “I will allow what you want, if you give me a pledge, until you may send what you promise.
    18: Judah said, “What do you want to be given for a pledge?” She responded, “Your ring and bracelet, and the staff that you hold in your hand.” Thereupon, the woman, from one sexual encounter, conceived
    19: And she arose and went away. And storing away the garments that she had taken up, she was clothed in the garments of her widowhood
    20: Then Judah sent a young goat by his shepherd, the Adullamite, so that he might receive the pledge that he had given to the woman. But, when he had not found her
    21: he questioned the men of that place: “Where is the woman who sat at the crossroad?” And they all responded, “There has been no harlot in this place.
    22: He returned to Judah, and he said to him: “I did not find her. Moreover, the men of that place told me that a prostitute had never sat there.
    23: Judah said: “Let her hold herself to blame. Certainly, she is not able to accuse us of a lie. I sent the young goat that I had promised, and you did not find her.
    24: And behold, after three months, they reported to Judah, saying, “Tamar, your daughter-in-law, has committed fornication and her abdomen appears to be enlarged.” And Judah said, “Produce her, so that she may be burned.
    25: But when she was led out to the punishment, she sent to her father-in-law, saying: “I conceived by the man to whom these things belong. Recognize whose ring, and bracelet, and staff this is.
    26: But he, acknowledging the gifts, said: “She is more just than I am. For I did not deliver her to my son Shelah.” However, he knew her no more
    27: Then, at the moment of birth, there appeared twins in the womb. And so, in the very delivery of the infants, one put forth a hand, on which the midwife tied a scarlet thread, saying
    28: “This one will go out first.
    29: But in truth, drawing back his hand, the other came out. And the woman said, “Why is the partition divided for you?” And for this reason, she called his name Perez
    30: After this, his brother came out, on whose hand was the scarlet thread. And she called him Zerah

  Chapter 39.

    1: Meanwhile, Joseph was led into Egypt. And Putiphar, a eunuch of Pharaoh, a leader of the army, an Egyptian man, purchased him from the hand of the Ishmaelites, by whom he was brought
    2: And the Lord was with him, and he was a man who prospered in everything that he did. And he lived in the house of his lord
    3: who knew very well that the Lord was with him, and that all the things that were done by him were directed by his hand
    4: And Joseph found favor in the sight of his lord, and he ministered to him. And, having been placed in charge of everything by him, he governed the house that was entrusted to him and all the things that had been delivered to him
    5: And the Lord blessed the house of the Egyptian, because of Joseph, and he multiplied all his substance, as much in the buildings, as in the fields
    6: Neither did he know anything other than the bread that he ate. Now Joseph was beautiful in form, and stately in appearance
    7: And so, after many days, his mistress cast her eyes on Joseph, and she said, “Sleep with me.
    8: And without consenting at all to the wicked act, he said to her: “Behold, my lord has delivered all things to me, and he does not know what he has in his own house
    9: Neither is there anything which is not in my power, or that he has not delivered to me, except you, for you are his wife. How then can I do this evil act and sin against my God?
    10: With such words as these, throughout each day, the woman was pestering the young man, and he was refusing the adultery
    11: Then it happened, on a certain day, that Joseph entered the house, and he was doing something, without any witnesses
    12: And she, grasping the hem of his garment, said, “Sleep with me.” But he, leaving behind the cloak in her hand, fled and went outside
    13: And when the woman saw the garment in her hands and herself being treated with disrespect
    14: she called to herself the men of her house, and she said to them: “Lo, he has brought in a Hebrew man to abuse us. He entered toward me, in order to join with me; and when I had shouted out
    15: and he had heard my voice, he left behind the cloak that I held, and he fled outside.
    16: As a proof, therefore, of her fidelity, she retained the cloak, and she showed it to her husband, when he returned home
    17: And she said: “The Hebrew servant, whom you have brought in to me, approached me to abuse me
    18: And when he had heard me cry out, he left behind the cloak that I held, and he fled outside.
    19: His lord, upon hearing these things, and having excessive trust in the words of his mate, was very angry
    20: And he delivered Joseph into prison, where the prisoners of the king were kept, and he was enclosed in that place
    21: But the Lord was with Joseph, and, having mercy on him, he gave him favor in the sight of the leader of the prison
    22: who delivered into his hand all the prisoners who were held in custody. And whatever was done, was under him
    23: Neither did he himself know anything, having entrusted all things to him. For the Lord was with him, and he directed everything that he did

  Chapter 40.

    1: While these things were going on, it happened that two eunuchs, the cupbearer of the king of Egypt, and the miller of grain, offended their lord
    2: And Pharaoh, being angry with them, (now the one was in charge of the cupbearers, the other of the millers of grain
    3: sent them to the prison of the leader of the military, in which Joseph also was a prisoner
    4: But the keeper of the prison delivered them to Joseph, who ministered to them also. Some little time passed by, while they were held in custody
    5: And they both saw a similar dream on one night, whose interpretations should be related to one another
    6: And when Joseph had entered to them in the morning, and had seen them sad
    7: he consulted them, saying, “Why is your expression sadder today than usual?
    8: They responded, “We have seen a dream, and there is no one to interpret it for us.” And Joseph said to them, “Doesn’t interpretation belong to God? Recount for me what you have seen.
    9: The chief cupbearer explained his dream first. “I saw before me a vine
    10: on which were three shoots, which grew little by little into buds, and, after the flowers, it matured into grapes
    11: And the cup of Pharaoh was in my hand. Therefore, I took the grapes, and I pressed them into the cup that I held, and I handed the cup to Pharaoh.
    12: Joseph responded: “This is the interpretation of the dream. The three shoots are the next three days
    13: after which Pharaoh will remember your service, and he will restore you to your former position. And you will give him the cup according to your office, as you were accustomed to do before
    14: Only remember me, when it will be well with you, and do me this mercy, to suggest to Pharaoh to lead me out of this prison
    15: For I have been stolen from the land of the Hebrews, and here, innocently, I was cast into the pit.
    16: The chief miller of grain, seeing that he had wisely unraveled the dream, said: “I also saw a dream: that I had three baskets of meal above my head
    17: and in one basket, which was the highest, I carried all foods that are made by the art of baking, and the birds ate from it.
    18: Joseph responded: “This is the interpretation of the dream. The three baskets are the next three days
    19: after which Pharaoh will carry away your head, and also suspend you from a cross, and the birds will tear your flesh.
    20: The third day thereafter was the birthday of Pharaoh. And making a great feast for his servants, he remembered, during the banquet, the chief cupbearer and the chief miller of grain
    21: And he restored the one to his place, to present him the cup
    22: the other he hanged on a gallows, and thus the truth of the interpreter of dreams was proven
    23: And although he advanced with so much prosperity, the chief cupbearer forgot his interpreter of dreams

End of day 10.