Day 170:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['137', '138', '139', '140']:

  Chapter 137.

    1: Of David himself. O Lord, I will confess to you with my whole heart, for you have heard the words of my mouth. I will sing psalms to you in the sight of the Angels
    2: I will adore before your holy temple, and I will confess your name: it is above your mercy and your truth. For you have magnified your holy name above all
    3: On whatever day that I will call upon you: hear me. You will multiply virtue in my soul
    4: May all the kings of the earth confess to you, O Lord. For they have heard all the words of your mouth
    5: And let them sing in accordance with the ways of the Lord. For great is the glory of the Lord
    6: For the Lord is exalted, and he looks with favor on the humble. But the lofty he knows from a distance
    7: If I wander into the midst of tribulation, you will revive me. For you extended your hand against the wrath of my enemies. And your right hand has accomplished my salvation
    8: The Lord will provide retribution on my behalf. O Lord, your mercy is forever. Do not disdain the works of your hands

  Chapter 138.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David. O Lord, you have examined me, and you have known me
    2: You have known my sitting down and my rising up again
    3: You have understood my thoughts from afar. My path and my fate, you have investigated
    4: And you have foreseen all my ways. For there is no word in my tongue
    5: Behold, O Lord, you have known all things: the newest and the very old. You have formed me, and you have placed your hand over me
    6: Your knowledge has become a wonder to me. It has been reinforced, and I am not able to prevail against it
    7: Where will I go from your Spirit? And where will I flee from your face
    8: If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I descend into Hell, you are near
    9: If I assume my feathers in early morning, and dwell in the utmost parts of the sea
    10: even there, your hand will lead me forth, and your right hand will hold me
    11: And I said: Perhaps darkness will overwhelm me, and the night will be my illumination, to my delight
    12: But darkness will not be impenetrable to you, and night will illuminate like the day: for just as its darkness is, so also is its light
    13: For you have possessed my temperament. You have supported me from the womb of my mother
    14: I will confess to you, for you have been magnified terribly. Your works are miraculous, as my soul knows exceedingly well
    15: My bone, which you have made in secret, has not been hidden from you, and my substance is in accord with the lower parts of the earth
    16: Your eyes saw my imperfection, and all this shall be written in your book. Days will be formed, and no one shall be in them
    17: But to me, O God, your friends have been greatly honored. Their first ruler has been exceedingly strengthened
    18: I will number them, and they will be more numerous than the sand. I rose up, and I am still with you
    19: O God, if only you would cut down sinners. You men of blood: depart from me
    20: For you say in thought: They will accept your cities in vain
    21: Have I not hated those who hated you, Lord, and wasted away because of your enemies
    22: I have hated them with a perfect hatred, and they have become enemies to me
    23: Examine me, O God, and know my heart. Question me, and know my paths
    24: And see if there might be in me the way of iniquity, and lead me in the way of eternity

  Chapter 139.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: Rescue me, O Lord, from the evil man. Rescue me from the iniquitous leader
    3: Those who have devised iniquities in their hearts: all day long they constructed conflicts
    4: They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent. The venom of asps is under their lips
    5: Preserve me, O Lord, from the hand of the sinner, and rescue me from men of iniquity. They have decided to supplant my steps
    6: The arrogant have hidden a snare for me. And they have stretched out cords for a snare. They have placed a stumbling block for me near the road
    7: I said to the Lord: You are my God. O Lord, heed the voice of my supplication
    8: Lord, O Lord, the strength of my salvation: you have overshadowed my head in the day of war
    9: O Lord, do not hand me over to the sinner by my desire. They have plotted against me. Do not abandon me, lest they should triumph
    10: The head of those who encompass me, the labor of their lips, will overwhelm them
    11: Burning coals will fall upon them. You will cast them down into the fire, into miseries that they will not be able to withstand
    12: A talkative man will not be guided aright upon the earth. Evils will drag the unjust man unto utter ruin
    13: I know that the Lord will accomplish justice for the needy and vindication for the poor
    14: So then, truly, the just will confess your name, and the upright will dwell with your countenance

  Chapter 140.

    1: A Psalm of David. O Lord, I have cried out to you, hear me. Attend to my voice, when I cry out to you
    2: Let my prayer be guided like incense in your sight: the lifting up of my hands, like the evening sacrifice
    3: O Lord, station a guard over my mouth and a door enclosing my lips
    4: Do not turn aside my heart to words of malice, to making excuses for sins, with men who work iniquity; and I will not communicate, even with the best of them
    5: The just one will correct me with mercy, and he will rebuke me. But do not allow the oil of the sinner to fatten my head. For my prayer will still be toward their good will
    6: Their judges have been engulfed, joined to the rocks. They will hear my words, which have prevailed
    7: as when the lava of the earth has erupted above ground. Our bones have been scattered beside Hell
    8: For Lord, O Lord, my eyes look to you. In you, I have hoped. Do not take away my soul
    9: Protect me from the snare that they have set up for me and from the scandals of those who work iniquity
    10: The sinners will fall into his net. I am alone, until I pass over

End of day 170.