Day 305:

Reading John, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Jesus said these things, and then, lifting up his eyes toward heaven, he said: “Father, the hour has arrived: glorify your Son, so that your Son may glorify you
    2: just as you have given authority over all flesh to him, so that he may give eternal life to all those whom you have given to him
    3: And this is eternal life: that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent
    4: I have glorified you on earth. I have completed the work that you gave me to accomplish
    5: And now Father, glorify me within yourself, with the glory that I had with you before the world ever was
    6: I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given to me from the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me. And they have kept your word
    7: Now they realize that all the things that you have given me are from you
    8: For I have given them the words that you gave to me. And they have accepted these words, and they have truly understood that I went forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me
    9: I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given to me. For they are yours
    10: And all that is mine is yours, and all that is yours is mine, and I am glorified in this
    11: And though I am not in the world, these are in the world, and I am coming to you. Father most holy, preserve them in your name, those whom you have given to me, so that they may be one, even as we are one
    12: While I was with them, I preserved them in your name. I have guarded those whom you have given to me, and not one of them is lost, except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture may be fulfilled
    13: And now I am coming to you. But I am speaking these things in the world, so that they may have the fullness of my joy within themselves
    14: I have given them your word, and the world has hated them. For they are not of the world, just as I, too, am not of the world
    15: I am not praying that you would take them out of the world, but that you would preserve them from evil
    16: They are not of the world, just as I also am not of the world
    17: Sanctify them in truth. Your word is truth
    18: Just as you have sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world
    19: And it is for them that I sanctify myself, so that they, too, may be sanctified in truth
    20: But I am not praying for them only, but also for those who through their word shall believe in me
    21: So may they all be one. Just as you, Father, are in me, and I am in you, so also may they be one in us: so that the world may believe that you have sent me
    22: And the glory that you have given to me, I have given to them, so that they may be one, just as we also are one
    23: I am in them, and you are in me. So may they be perfected as one. And may the world know that you have sent me and that you have loved them, just as you have also loved me
    24: Father, I will that where I am, those whom you have given to me may also be with me, so that they may see my glory which you have given to me. For you loved me before the founding of the world
    25: Father most just, the world has not known you. But I have known you. And these have known that you sent me
    26: And I have made known your name to them, and I will make it known, so that the love in which you have loved me may be in them, and so that I may be in them.

  Chapter 18.

    1: When Jesus had said these things, he departed with his disciples across the Torrent of Kidron, where there was a garden, into which he entered with his disciples
    2: But Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus had frequently met with his disciples there
    3: Then Judas, when he had received a cohort from both the high priests and the attendants of the Pharisees, approached the place with lanterns and torches and weapons
    4: And so Jesus, knowing all that was about to happen to him, advanced and said to them, “Who are you seeking?
    5: They answered him, “Jesus the Nazarene.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.” Now Judas, who betrayed him, was also standing with them
    6: Then, when he said to them, “I am he,” they moved back and fell to the ground
    7: Then again he questioned them: “Who are you seeking?” And they said, “Jesus the Nazarene.
    8: Jesus responded: “I told you that I am he. Therefore, if you are seeking me, permit these others to go away.
    9: This was so that the word might be fulfilled, which he said, “Of those whom you have given to me, I have not lost any of them.
    10: Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, and he struck the servant of the high priest, and he cut off his right ear. Now the name of the servant was Malchus
    11: Therefore, Jesus said to Peter: “Set your sword into the scabbard. Should I not drink the chalice which my Father has given to me?
    12: Then the cohort, and the tribune, and the attendants of the Jews apprehended Jesus and bound him
    13: And they led him away, first to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year
    14: Now Caiaphas was the one who had given counsel to the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die for the people
    15: And Simon Peter was following Jesus with another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and so he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest
    16: But Peter was standing outside at the entrance. Therefore, the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the woman who was the doorkeeper, and he led in Peter
    17: Therefore, the woman servant keeping the door said to Peter, “Are you not also among the disciples of this man?” He said, “I am not.
    18: Now the servants and attendants were standing before burning coals, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves. And Peter was standing with them also, warming himself
    19: Then the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his doctrine
    20: Jesus responded to him: “I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews meet. And I have said nothing in secret
    21: Why do you question me? Question those who heard what I said to them. Behold, they know these things that I have said.
    22: Then, when he had said this, one the attendants standing nearby struck Jesus, saying: “Is this the way you answer the high priest?
    23: Jesus answered him: “If I have spoken wrongly, offer testimony about the wrong. But if I have spoken correctly, then why do you strike me?
    24: And Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest
    25: Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him, “Are you not also one of his disciples?” He denied it and said, “I am not.
    26: One of the servants of the high priest (a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off) said to him, “Did I not see you in the garden with him?
    27: Therefore, again, Peter denied it. And immediately the rooster crowed
    28: Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium. Now it was morning, and so they did not enter into the praetorium, so that they would not be defiled, but might eat the Passover
    29: Therefore, Pilate went outside to them, and he said, “What accusation are you bringing against this man?
    30: They responded and said to him, “If he were not an evil-doer, we would not have handed him over you.
    31: Therefore, Pilate said to them, “Take him yourselves and judge him according to your own law.” Then the Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to execute anyone.
    32: This was so that the word of Jesus would be fulfilled, which he spoke signifying what kind of death he would die
    33: Then Pilate entered the praetorium again, and he called Jesus and said to him, “You are the king of the Jews?
    34: Jesus responded, “Are you saying this of yourself, or have others spoken to you about me?
    35: Pilate responded: “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the high priests have handed you over to me. What have you done?
    36: Jesus responded: “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my ministers would certainly strive so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not now from here.
    37: And so Pilate said to him, “You are a king, then?” Jesus answered, “You are saying that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I came into the world: so that I may offer testimony to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.
    38: Pilate said to him, “What is truth?” And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and he said to them, “I find no case against him
    39: But you have a custom, that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore, do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?
    40: Then they all cried out repeatedly, saying: “Not this one, but Barabbas.” Now Barabbas was a robber

  Chapter 19.

    1: Therefore, Pilate then took Jesus into custody and scourged him
    2: And the soldiers, plaiting a crown of thorns, imposed it on his head. And they put a purple garment around him
    3: And they were approaching him and saying, “Hail, king of the Jews!” And they struck him repeatedly
    4: Then Pilate went outside again, and he said to them: “Behold, I am bringing him out to you, so that you may realize that I find no case against him.
    5: (Then Jesus went out, bearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment.) And he said to them, “Behold the man.
    6: Therefore, when the high priests and the attendants had seen him, they cried out, saying: “Crucify him! Crucify him!” Pilate said to them: “Take him yourselves and crucify him. For I find no case against him.
    7: The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and according to the law, he ought to die, for he has made himself the Son of God.
    8: Therefore, when Pilate had heard this word, he was more fearful
    9: And he entered into the praetorium again. And he said to Jesus. “Where are you from?” But Jesus gave him no response
    10: Therefore, Pilate said to him: “Will you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to crucify you, and I have authority to release you?
    11: Jesus responded, “You would not have any authority over me, unless it were given to you from above. For this reason, he who has handed me over to you has the greater sin.
    12: And from then on, Pilate was seeking to release him. But the Jews were crying out, saying: “If you release this man, you are no friend of Caesar. For anyone who makes himself a king contradicts Caesar.
    13: Now when Pilate had heard these words, he brought Jesus outside, and he sat down in the seat of judgment, in a place which is called the Pavement, but in Hebrew, it is called the Elevation
    14: Now it was the preparation day of the Passover, about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, “Behold your king.
    15: But they were crying out: “Take him away! Take him away! Crucify him!” Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your king?” The high priests responded, “We have no king except Caesar.
    16: Therefore, he then handed him over to them to be crucified. And they took Jesus and led him away
    17: And carrying his own cross, he went forth to the place which is called Calvary, but in Hebrew it is called the Place of the Skull
    18: There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, with Jesus in the middle
    19: Then Pilate also wrote a title, and he set it above the cross. And it was written: JESUS THE NAZARENE, KING OF THE JEWS
    20: Therefore, many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was close to the city. And it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, and in Latin
    21: Then the high priests of the Jews said to Pilate: Do not write, ‘King of the Jews,’ but that he said, ‘I am King of the Jews.
    22: Pilate responded, “What I have written, I have written.
    23: Then the soldiers, when they had crucified him, took his garments, and they made four parts, one part to each soldier, and the tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven from above throughout the whole
    24: Then they said to one another, “Let us not cut it, but instead let us cast lots over it, to see whose it will be.” This was so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, saying: “They have distributed my garments among themselves, and for my vesture they have cast lots.” And indeed, the soldiers did these things
    25: And standing beside the cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother’s sister, and Mary of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene
    26: Therefore, when Jesus had seen his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing near, he said to his mother, “Woman, behold your son.
    27: Next, he said to the disciple, “Behold your mother.” And from that hour, the disciple accepted her as his own
    28: After this, Jesus knew that all had been accomplished, so in order that the Scripture might be completed, he said, “I thirst.
    29: And there was a container placed there, full of vinegar. Then, placing a sponge full of vinegar around hyssop, they brought it to his mouth
    30: Then Jesus, when he had received the vinegar, said: “It is consummated.” And bowing down his head, he surrendered his spirit
    31: Then the Jews, because it was the preparation day, so that the bodies would not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a great day), they petitioned Pilate in order that their legs might be broken, and they might be taken away
    32: Therefore, the soldiers approached, and, indeed, they broke the legs of the first one, and of the other who was crucified with him
    33: But after they had approached Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs
    34: Instead, one of the soldiers opened his side with a lance, and immediately there went out blood and water
    35: And he who saw this has offered testimony, and his testimony is true. And he knows that he speaks the truth, so that you also may believe
    36: For these things happened so that the Scripture would be fulfilled: “You shall not break a bone of him.
    37: And again, another Scripture says: “They shall look upon him, whom they have pierced.
    38: Then, after these things, Joseph from Arimathea, (because he was a disciple of Jesus, but a secret one for fear of the Jews) petitioned Pilate so that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave permission. Therefore, he went and took away the body of Jesus
    39: Now Nicodemus also arrived, (who had gone to Jesus at first by night) bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloe, weighing about seventy pounds
    40: Therefore, they took the body of Jesus, and they bound it with linen cloths and the aromatic spices, just as it is the manner of the Jews to bury
    41: Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden there was a new tomb, in which no one had yet been laid
    42: Therefore, because of the preparation day of the Jews, since the tomb was nearby, they placed Jesus there

  Chapter 20.

    1: Then on the first Sabbath, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and she saw that the stone had been rolled away from the tomb
    2: Therefore, she ran and went to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and she said to them, “They have taken the Lord away from the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him.
    3: Therefore, Peter departed with the other disciple, and they went to the tomb
    4: Now they both ran together, but the other disciple ran more quickly, ahead of Peter, and so he arrived at the tomb first
    5: And when he bowed down, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not yet enter
    6: Then Simon Peter arrived, following him, and he entered the tomb, and he saw the linen cloths lying there
    7: and the separate cloth which had been over his head, not placed with the linen cloths, but in a separate place, wrapped up by itself
    8: Then the other disciple, who had arrived first at the tomb, also entered. And he saw and believed
    9: For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that it was necessary for him to rise again from the dead
    10: Then the disciples went away again, each by himself
    11: But Mary was standing outside the tomb, weeping. Then, while she was weeping, she bowed down and gazed into the tomb
    12: And she saw two Angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been placed, one at the head, and one at the feet
    13: They say to her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” She said to them, “Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have placed him.
    14: When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not know that it was Jesus
    15: Jesus said to her: “Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you seeking?” Considering that it was the gardener, she said to him, “Sir, if you have moved him, tell me where you have placed him, and I will take him away.
    16: Jesus said to her, “Mary!” And turning, she said to him, “Rabboni!” (which means, Teacher)
    17: Jesus said to her: “Do not touch me. For I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brothers and tell them: ‘I am ascending to my Father and to your Father, to my God and to your God.’ 
    18: Mary Magdalene went, announcing to the disciples, “I have seen the Lord, and these are the things that he said to me.
    19: Then, when it was late on the same day, on the first of the Sabbaths, and the doors were closed where the disciples were gathered, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst, and he said to them: “Peace to you.
    20: And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and side. And the disciples were gladdened when they saw the Lord
    21: Therefore, he said to them again: “Peace to you. As the Father has sent me, so I send you.
    22: When he had said this, he breathed on them. And he said to them: “Receive the Holy Spirit
    23: Those whose sins you shall forgive, they are forgiven them, and those whose sins you shall retain, they are retained.
    24: Now Thomas, one of the twelve, who is called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus arrived
    25: Therefore, the other disciples said to him, “We have seen the Lord.” But he said to them, “Unless I will see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the place of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will not believe.
    26: And after eight days, again his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Jesus arrived, though the doors had been closed, and he stood in their midst and said, “Peace to you.
    27: Next, he said to Thomas: “Look at my hands, and place your finger here; and bring your hand close, and place it at my side. And do not choose to be unbelieving, but faithful.
    28: Thomas responded and said to him, “My Lord and my God.
    29: Jesus said to him: “You have seen me, Thomas, so you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.
    30: Jesus also accomplished many other signs in the sight of his disciples. These have not been written in this book
    31: But these things have been written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and so that, in believing, you may have life in his name

End of day 305.