Day 278:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Meanwhile, when Demetrius heard that Nicanor and his army had fallen in battle, he again positioned Bacchides and Alcimus in Judea, and the right horn of his army with them
    2: And they traveled by the way that leads to Gilgal, and they set up camp in Mesaloth, which is in Arbela. And they occupied it, and they destroyed the lives of many men
    3: In the first month of the one hundred and fifty-second year, they positioned the army near Jerusalem
    4: And they rose up and went to Berea, with twenty thousand men and two thousand horsemen
    5: Now Judas had stationed his camp in Elasa, and three thousand chosen men were with him
    6: And they saw the multitude of the army, that they were many, and they became very afraid. And many withdrew themselves from the camp, and there remained of them no more than eight hundred men
    7: And Judas saw that his army had slipped away and that the battle pressed upon him, and his heart was shattered, because he did not have time to gather them together, and he was very discouraged
    8: And so, he said to those who were remaining, “Let us rise up and go against our enemies, perhaps we may be able to fight against them.
    9: But they dissuaded him, saying: “We will not be able, but let us try to save our lives and return to our brothers, and then we will fight against them. For we are but few.
    10: And Judas said: “Far be it from us, to do this thing, so as to flee away from them. But if our time has drawn near, let us die with virtue, on behalf of our brothers, and let us not inflict guilt upon our glory.
    11: And the army moved from the camp, and they stood to meet them. And the horsemen were divided into two parts, and the stone-slingers and archers went before the army, and the first ones were all powerful men, experienced in combat
    12: Moreover, Bacchides was with the right horn, and the legion drew near on both sides, and they sounded the trumpets
    13: But those also who were from the side of Judas, these also now cried out, and the earth shook at the noise of the armies. And the battle was joined from morning, even until evening
    14: And Judas saw that the stronger part of the army of Bacchides was on the right side, and all the steadfast in heart came together with him
    15: And the right part was crushed by them, and he pursued them even to Mount Azotus
    16: And those who were with the left horn saw that the right horn was crushed, and so they followed after Judas, and those who were with him, at their back
    17: And the battle was hard fought, and there fell many wounded from one side and the other
    18: And Judas fell, and the others fled away
    19: And Jonathan and Simon carried Judas, their brother, and they buried him in the sepulcher of their fathers, in the city of Modin
    20: And all the people of Israel wept for him with a great wailing, and they mourned him for many days
    21: And they said, “Such a powerful man has fallen, who accomplished the salvation of the people of Israel!
    22: But the rest of the words, about the wars of Judas, and the virtuous acts that he did, and his magnitude, have not been written. For they were very many
    23: And it happened that, after the death of Judas, the iniquitous began to emerge in all the parts of Israel, and they began to encourage all those who worked iniquity
    24: In those days, there occurred a very great famine, and the entire region handed itself over to Bacchides
    25: And Bacchides chose impious men, and he appointed them as rulers of the region
    26: And they sought out and persecuted the friends of Judas, and they led them to Bacchides, and he took vengeance on them and abused them
    27: And there occurred a great tribulation in Israel, such as had never been, since the day that there was no prophet seen in Israel
    28: And all the friends of Judas gathered together, and they said to Jonathan
    29: “Since your brother Judas has fallen away, there is not a man like him to go forth against our enemies, against Bacchides and those who are the enemies of our nation
    30: And so now, we have chosen you in his place, on this day, to be our leader and commander in order to wage our wars.
    31: And so, at that time, Jonathan took upon himself the leadership, and he rose up in the place of Judas, his brother
    32: And Bacchides knew of it, and he sought to kill him
    33: And Jonathan and his brother Simon knew of this, and so did all who were with them. And they fled into the desert of Tekoa, and they settled by the water of lake Asphar
    34: And Bacchides knew of it, and on the day of the Sabbath, he himself arrived, with all his army, across the Jordan
    35: And Jonathan sent his brother, a commander of the people, to ask the Nabateans, his friends, to lend them their equipment, which was abundant
    36: And the sons of Jambri went forth from Medeba, and they captured John, and all that he had, and they went away in possession of these
    37: After these events, it was reported to Jonathan and his brother Simon that the sons of Jambri were having a great marriage celebration, and that they would be leading the bride, a daughter of one of the great leaders of Canaan, out of Medeba with great fanfare
    38: And they remembered the blood of John, their brother. And they went up and hid themselves under the cover of the mountain
    39: And they lifted up their eyes and saw. And behold, a tumult and a well-prepared multitude. And the bridegroom proceeded, with his friends and his brothers, to meet them with timbrels, and musical instruments, and many weapons
    40: And they rose up against them out of ambush, and they killed them, and there fell many wounded, and the remainder fled into the mountains, and they took all their spoils
    41: And the marriage celebration was turned into mourning, and the voice of their musical instruments into lamentation
    42: And they took revenge for the blood of their brother, and they returned to the bank of the Jordan
    43: And Bacchides heard about this, and he came on the day of the Sabbath all the way to the coast of the Jordan, with a great force
    44: And Jonathan said to his own: “Let us rise up and fight against our enemies. For it is not today, as it was yesterday, or the day before
    45: For behold, the war is before us, and truly, with the water of the Jordan here and there, and the banks, and the marshes, and the woods: there is no place for us to turn aside
    46: Therefore, cry out now to heaven so that you may be freed from the hand of your enemies.” And they joined together in warfare
    47: And Jonathan extended his hand to strike Bacchides, but he turned away from him in retreat
    48: And Jonathan, and those who were with him, leaped forward into the Jordan, and they swam across the Jordan to them
    49: And there fell from the side of Bacchides on that day one thousand men. And they returned to Jerusalem
    50: And they built fortified cities in Judea: the fortification that was in Jericho, and in Emmaus, and in Bethhoron, and in Bethel, and Timnath, and Pharathon, and Tephon, with high walls, and gates, and bars
    51: And he stationed garrisons in them, so that those in Israel became trained in warfare
    52: And he fortified the city of Bethzur, and of Gazara, and the stronghold, and he stationed auxiliaries in them, with supplies of rations
    53: And he took the sons of the leaders of the region for hostages, and put them in the stronghold in Jerusalem under guard
    54: Now in the second month of the one hundred and fifty-third year, Alcimus instructed that the walls of the inner court of the sanctuary be destroyed, and that the works of the prophets be destroyed. And he began to destroy them
    55: At that time, Alcimus was struck, and his works were hindered, and his mouth was closed shut, and he was weakened with paralysis, so that he was no longer able speak a word, nor to give orders concerning his house
    56: And Alcimus died at that time, in great torment
    57: And Bacchides saw that Alcimus was dead. And he returned to the king. And the land was quiet for two years
    58: And all the iniquitous considered together, saying, “Behold, Jonathan, and those who are with him, live in quietude and confidence. Now, therefore, let us bring forth Bacchides, and he will capture them all, in one night.
    59: So they went and gave counsel to him
    60: And he rose up, so as to advance with a great army. And he secretly sent letters to his associates who were in Judea, to seize Jonathan and those who were with him. But they were not able, for their plan became known to them
    61: And he apprehended, from the men of the region, those who were the leaders of this malice, fifty men. And he killed them
    62: And Jonathan, and Simon, and those who were with him, withdrew into Bethbasi, which is in the desert. And he repaired its breaches, and they fortified it
    63: And Bacchides knew about it, and he gathered together all his multitude. And he reported it to those who were from Judea
    64: And he came and made camp above Bethbasi, and he fought against it for many days, and he made machines of war
    65: But Jonathan left behind his brother Simon in the city, and he went out into the country, and he approached with a number of men
    66: and he struck Odomera and his brothers, and the sons of Phasiron, in their tents. And he began to slaughter and to increase in forces
    67: In truth, Simon, and those who were with him, went forth from the city and burned the machines of war
    68: and they fought against Bacchides, and he was crushed by them. And they afflicted him greatly, because his counsel and his meetings were in vain
    69: And he was angry with the men of iniquity who had given him counsel to come into their region, and he killed many of them. But he decided to depart with the remainder into their country
    70: And Jonathan knew of it, and he sent ambassadors to him to arrange a peace with him, and to restore the captives to him
    71: And he accepted it willingly, and he acted according to his words, and he swore that he would do him no evil all the days of his life
    72: And he restored to him the captives which he previously had been given from the land of Judah. And he turned back and went away into his own land, and he no longer drew near, in order to enter into their borders
    73: And so the sword ceased from Israel. And Jonathan lived in Michmash, and, in that place, Jonathan began to judge the people, and he destroyed the impious out of Israel

  Chapter 10.

    1: And in the one hundred and sixtieth year, Alexander, the son of Antiochus, who was surnamed the illustrious, came up and occupied Ptolemais, and they received him, and he reigned there
    2: And king Demetrius heard of it, and he gathered together an exceedingly great army, and he went forth to meet him in battle
    3: And Demetrius sent a letter to Jonathan, with peaceful words, to magnify him
    4: For he said, “Let us first make a peace with him, before he makes one with Alexander against us
    5: For he will remember all the evils that we have done to him, and to his brother, and to his nation.
    6: And he gave him the authority to gather together an army, and to fabricate weapons, so that he would be his associate. And the hostages who were in the stronghold, he ordered to be handed over to him
    7: And Jonathan came to Jerusalem, and he read the letters in the hearing of all the people and of those who were in the stronghold
    8: And they were struck with a great fear, because they heard that the king gave him the authority to gather together an army
    9: And the hostages were handed over to Jonathan, and he restored them to their parents
    10: And Jonathan lived in Jerusalem, and he began to rebuild and repair the city
    11: And he told those doing the work to build up the walls, and mount Zion, all around, with square stones, as a fortification. And they did so
    12: Then the foreigners, who were in the fortifications that Bacchides had built, fled away
    13: And each one abandoned his place and departed into his own land
    14: Only in Bethzur did there remain some others of these, who had forsaken the law and the precepts of God. For this was a refuge for them
    15: And king Alexander heard of the promises that Demetrius promised to Jonathan. And they described the battles to him, and the virtuous deeds that he and his brothers had done, and the hardships that they had endured
    16: And he said: “Would we ever find another such man? And so now, let us make him our friend and our associate.
    17: And so, he wrote a letter, and he sent it to him, according to these words, saying
    18: “King Alexander to his brother, Jonathan: greetings
    19: We have heard of you, that you are a man of power and strength, and that you are fit to be our friend
    20: And so now, on this day, we appoint that you be high priest of your people, and that you be called the king’s friend, (and he sent him a purple robe, and a crown of gold,) and that you be of one mind with us in our affairs, and that you keep friendship with us.
    21: Then Jonathan clothed himself with the holy vestment, in the seventh month, in the one hundred and sixtieth year, on the solemn day of the Feast of Tabernacles. And he gathered together an army, and he made an abundance of weapons
    22: And Demetrius heard these words, and he was exceedingly sorrowful, and he said
    23: “What have we done in this, that Alexander has gone before us to obtain the friendship of the Jews to strengthen himself
    24: I also will write to them words of petition, and offer positions of rank and gifts, so that they may act in assistance to me.
    25: And he wrote to them in these words: “King Demetrius to the nation of the Jews: greetings
    26: Since you have kept the peace with us, and have remained in our friendship, and have not made agreements with our enemies, we have heard of this, and we are glad
    27: And so now, persevere still to remain faithful to us, and we will reward you with good things for what you have done for us
    28: And we will repay you for your many expenses, and we will give you gifts
    29: And now, I release you, and all the Jews, from tributes, and I grant to you the payments of salt, and I send back the crowns and the thirds of the seed
    30: And the one half portion of the fruit from the trees, which is my share, I relinquish to you from this day and hereafter, so that it shall not be taken from the land of Judah, nor from the three cities that have been added to it from Samaria and Galilee, from this day and for all time
    31: And let Jerusalem be holy and free within its borders, and let the tenths and tributes be for itself
    32: And I even return authority over the stronghold, which is in Jerusalem, and I give it to the high priest, in order to appoint in it any such men as he will choose, who will guard it
    33: And every soul of the Jews who were taken captive from the land of Judah in all my kingdom, I set at liberty without charge, so that they are all released from tributes, even of their cattle
    34: And all the days of solemnities, and the Sabbaths, and the new moons, and the decreed days, and the three days before the solemn day, and three days after the solemn day, shall all be days of immunity and remission for all the Jews who are in my kingdom
    35: And no one will have the authority to do anything, or to incite any plots, against any of them, in all cases
    36: And let there be enrolled from the Jews, into the army of the king, up to thirty thousand men. And allowances shall be given to them, just as is due to all the king’s army. And some of them shall be appointed to be in the fortresses of the great king
    37: And some of them shall be set over the affairs of the kingdom, those who act with faith, and let the leaders be from them, and let them walk by their own laws, just as the king has commanded in the land of Judah
    38: And the three cities that have been added to Judea from the region of Samaria, let them be counted with Judea, so that they may be united as one, and so that they may obey no other authority, except the high priest
    39: Ptolemais and its confines, I give as a free gift to the holy places that are in Jerusalem, for the necessary expenses of the holy things
    40: And I give, every year, fifteen thousand shekels of silver from the allotment of the king, from what belongs to me
    41: And all that has been left over, which those who were set over the affairs in prior years have not paid: from this time, they will give it to the works of the house
    42: And beyond this, they shall receive five thousand shekels of silver from the allotment of the holy places each year, and this will belong to the priests who perform the ministry
    43: And whoever will flee into the temple that is in Jerusalem, or in any of its parts, being liable before the king in any matter, let them be released, and all that is theirs in my kingdom, let them have it freely
    44: And as to the works of rebuilding and repairing the holy places, the expenses shall be given from the king’s revenues
    45: And as to the raising of the walls of Jerusalem and the fortifications all around it, the expenses shall be given from the king’s revenues, as also for the building of the walls in Judea.
    46: So when Jonathan and the people heard these words, they did not believe or accept them, because they remembered the great malice that he had done in Israel, for he had troubled them greatly
    47: And so they were pleased with Alexander, because he had been to them a leader with words of peace, and they were of assistance to him every day
    48: And so king Alexander gathered together a great army, and he moved his camp against Demetrius
    49: And the two kings joined together in battle, and the army of Demetrius fled away, and Alexander followed after him, and he closed in on them
    50: And the battle was hard fought, until the sun went down. And Demetrius was slain on that day
    51: And Alexander sent ambassadors to Ptolemy, the king of Egypt, according to these words, saying
    52: “Know that I have returned to my kingdom, and I am seated upon the throne of my fathers, and I have obtained the leadership, and I have crushed Demetrius, and I have taken possession of our country
    53: and I have joined battle with him, and both he and his camp have been crushed by us, and we are seated on the throne of his kingdom
    54: And now, let us establish a friendship with one with another. And give me your daughter as a wife, and I will be your son-in-law, and I will give gifts that are worthy of you, to both you and her.
    55: And king Ptolemy responded by saying: “Happy is the day on which you were returned to the land of your fathers, and you sat on the throne of their kingdom
    56: And now, I will do for you as you have written. But meet with me at Ptolemais, so that we may see one another, and so that I may espouse her to you, just as you have said.
    57: And so Ptolemy departed from Egypt, both he and his daughter Cleopatra, and he arrived at Ptolemais in the one hundred and sixty-second year
    58: And king Alexander met him, and he gave him Cleopatra, his daughter. And he celebrated her marriage at Ptolemais with great glory, just as befits kings
    59: And king Alexander wrote to Jonathan, that he should come to meet him
    60: And he went forth with glory to Ptolemais, and he met the two kings there, and he gave them much silver, and gold, and gifts. And he found favor in their sight
    61: And some of the pestilent men of Israel, men of iniquity, came together against him, interrupting with objections against him. And the king did not attend to them
    62: And he ordered that Jonathan’s garments be taken away from him, and that he be clothed in purple. And they did so. And the king arranged for him to sit with him
    63: And he said to his princes, “Go out with him into the midst of the city, and make a proclamation, so that no one may raise objections against him in any matter, and so that no one may bother him for any reason.
    64: And so it happened that, when his accusers saw his glory being proclaimed, and him clothed in purple, they all fled away
    65: And the king magnified him, and he enrolled him among his foremost friends, and he gave him a position as governor and as a participant in his dominion
    66: And Jonathan returned to Jerusalem with peace and joy
    67: In the one hundred and sixty-fifth year, Demetrius, the son of Demetrius, came from Crete into the land of his fathers
    68: And king Alexander heard of it, and he was very sorrowful, and he returned to Antioch
    69: And king Demetrius appointed Apollonius as his general, who was in charge of Coelesyria. And he gathered together a great army, and he drew near to Jamnia. And he sent to Jonathan, the high priest
    70: saying: “You alone resist us, and so I have been brought to derision and disgrace, because you exercise your power against us in the mountains
    71: Now, therefore, if you trust in your forces, descend to us in the plains, and there let us contest one another. For the power of war is with me
    72: Inquire, and learn who I am, and the others, who are auxiliaries to me, who also say that your feet cannot stand before our face, for your fathers have twice been put to flight in their own land
    73: And now, how will you be able to withstand the horsemen, and so great an army in the plains, where there is no stone, or rock, or place to flee?
    74: But when Jonathan heard the words of Apollonius, he was moved in his soul. And he chose ten thousand men, and he departed from Jerusalem, and Simon, his brother, met him to help him
    75: And they positioned their tents near Joppa, but they excluded him from the city, because a garrison from Apollonius was in Joppa. And so, he attacked it
    76: And those who were in the city, being terrified, opened to him. And so Jonathan obtained Joppa
    77: And Apollonius heard of it, and he moved three thousand horsemen, and a great army
    78: And he went toward Azotus, like one making a journey, but he suddenly departed into the plains, because he had a great number of horsemen, and he trusted in them. And Jonathan followed after him to Azotus, and they joined together in battle
    79: And Apollonius secretly left behind them in the camp a thousand horsemen
    80: And Jonathan realized that there was an ambush behind him, and they surrounded his camp, and they cast darts at the people from morning until evening
    81: But the people stood firm, just as Jonathan had instructed them, and their horses suffered hardships
    82: Then Simon drew forth his army, and he sent them against the legion. For the horsemen were wearied. And they were crushed by him, and they fled
    83: And those who were scattered throughout the plains fled to Azotus, and they entered into Bethdagon, so that, by their idol in that place, they might save themselves
    84: But Jonathan set fire to Azotus and to the cities that were all around it, and he captured their spoils and the temple of Dagon. And he burned with fire all those who had fled into it
    85: And so it was that those who fell by the sword, with those who were burned, were nearly eight thousand men
    86: And Jonathan, removed his encampment from there, and he took up a position against Askalon. And they went out of the city to meet him with great glory
    87: And Jonathan returned to Jerusalem with his own, having many spoils
    88: And it happened that, when king Alexander heard these words, he added still more glory to Jonathan
    89: And he sent him a clasp of gold, as is customary to be given to those who are of royal lineage. And he gave him Ekron, and all its borders, as a possession

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the king of Egypt gathered together an army, like the sand that is along the shore of the sea, and many ships. And he sought to obtain the kingdom of Alexander by deceit, and to add it to his own kingdom
    2: And he departed into Syria with words of peace, and they opened the cities to him, and they were meeting with him. For king Alexander had commanded them to go out to meet him, because he was his father-in-law
    3: But when Ptolemy entered a city, he placed garrisons of soldiers in each of the cities
    4: And when he drew near to Azotus, they revealed to him that the temple of Dagon had been burned with fire, and Azotus and its suburbs had been demolished, and bodies had been abandoned, and that, for those who had been cut to pieces in the war, they had made a tomb along the way
    5: And they told the king that Jonathan had done these things, so as to make him hated. But the king remained silent
    6: And Jonathan went to meet the king at Joppa with glory, and they greeted one another, and they stayed there
    7: And Jonathan went with the king as far as the river, which is called Eleutherus. And he returned to Jerusalem
    8: But king Ptolemy obtained the dominion of the coastal cities, as far as Seleucia, and he devised evil plans against Alexander
    9: And he sent ambassadors to Demetrius, saying: “Come, let us compose a pact between us, and I will give you my daughter, whom Alexander had, and you will reign in the kingdom of your father
    10: For I regret that I have given him my daughter. For he has sought to kill me.
    11: And he slandered him, because he coveted his kingdom
    12: And he took away his daughter, and he gave her to Demetrius, and he alienated himself from Alexander, and his hostilities were made manifest
    13: And Ptolemy entered Antioch, and he placed two diadems upon his head, that of Egypt, and that of Asia
    14: Now king Alexander was in Cilicia at that time, because the people of those places were rebelling
    15: And when Alexander heard of it, he came against him in warfare. And king Ptolemy led forth his army, and he met him with a strong hand, and he put him to flight
    16: And Alexander fled into Arabia, so as to be protected there. And king Ptolemy was exalted
    17: And Zabdiel the Arab took off the head of Alexander, and he sent it to Ptolemy
    18: And king Ptolemy died on the third day, and those who were in the strongholds were destroyed by those who were in the camp
    19: And Demetrius reigned in the one hundred and sixty-seventh year
    20: In those days, Jonathan gathered together those who were in Judea, in order to fight against the stronghold that was in Jerusalem. And they made many machines of war against it
    21: And so, certain men of iniquity, who hated their own people, went forth to king Demetrius, and they reported to him that Jonathan was besieging the stronghold
    22: And when he heard it, he became angry. And immediately he came to Ptolemais, and he wrote to Jonathan that he should not besiege the stronghold, but that he should meet with him promptly, for a discussion
    23: But when Jonathan heard this, he ordered them to besiege it. And he chose some from the elders of Israel and from the priests, and he put himself in danger
    24: And he took gold, and silver, and vestments, and many other presents, and he went to the king at Ptolemais, and he found favor in his sight
    25: And some of the iniquitous from his nation came forward with objections against him
    26: And the king treated him just as those who were before him had treated him. And he exalted him in the sight of all his friends
    27: And he confirmed him in the high priesthood and in all the other honors that he held before, and he made him the leader of his friends
    28: And Jonathan requested of the king that he would make Judea free from tribute, along with the three districts, and Samaria, and its confines. And he promised him three hundred talents
    29: And the king consented. And he wrote letters to Jonathan about all these things, continuing in this way
    30: “King Demetrius to his brother Jonathan, and to the nation of the Jews: greetings
    31: We are sending you a copy of the letter that we wrote to Lasthenes, our parent, about you, so that you will know
    32: ‘King Demetrius to Lasthenes, his parent: greetings
    33: We have determined to do good to the people of the Jews, who are our friends and who keep to what is just with us, because of their good will, which they hold toward us
    34: Therefore, we have assigned to them all the parts of Judea, and the three cities, Lydda and Ramatha, which were added to Judea from Samaria, and all their confines, to be set apart for all those sacrificing in Jerusalem, in place of that which the king previously received from them each year, and in place of the fruits of the land and of the fruit trees
    35: And, as for the rest of that which pertains to us from tithes and tributes, from this time forward, we release them from these, as well as from the drying areas of salt and the crowns that were presented to us
    36: All these, we concede to them, and nothing of these shall be revoked, from this time forward and for all time
    37: Now, therefore, take care to make a copy of these things, and let it be given to Jonathan and set upon the holy mountain, in an honorable place.’ 
    38: And king Demetrius, seeing that the land was quieted in his sight and that nothing resisted him, sent all his forces away, each one to his own place, except the foreign army, which he had drawn together from the islands of the nations. And so all the troops of his fathers were hostile to him
    39: But there was a certain one, Trypho, who was previously on Alexander’s side. And he saw that all the army murmured against Demetrius, and so he went to Imalkue the Arab, who raised Antiochus, the son of Alexander
    40: And he persuaded him to deliver him to him, so that he would reign in his father’s place. And he reported to him what Demetrius had done, and that his army was hostile to him. And he remained there for many days
    41: And Jonathan sent to king Demetrius, so that he would cast out those who were in the stronghold in Jerusalem and those who were with the garrisons, because they fought against Israel
    42: And Demetrius sent to Jonathan, saying: “I will not only do this for you and your people, but I will elevate your glory and your nation, when opportunity shall serve
    43: Now, therefore, you will do well if you send men as auxiliaries to me. For all my army has withdrawn from me.
    44: And Jonathan sent three thousand strong men to him at Antioch. And they came to the king, and the king was delighted at their arrival
    45: And those who were of the city gathered together, one hundred and twenty thousand men, and they wanted to execute the king
    46: And the king fled into the royal court. And those who were of the city, occupied the passageways of the city, and they began to fight
    47: And the king called the Jews to his assistance. And they came together before him at the same time, and then they all dispersed themselves throughout the city
    48: And they killed, in that day, one hundred thousand men, and they set fire to the city, and they seized many spoils in that day, and they freed the king
    49: And those who were of the city saw that the Jews had taken the city, just as they wanted, and they were weakened in their resolve, and they cried out to the king with supplication, saying
    51: And they threw down their arms, and they made peace. And the Jews were glorified in the sight of the king and in the sight of all who were in his realm. And they became renowned in the kingdom, and they returned to Jerusalem, holding many spoils
    52: And so king Demetrius sat on the throne of his kingdom. And the land was quieted in his sight
    53: And he falsified everything whatsoever that he had said. And he alienated himself from Jonathan, and he did not repay him according to the benefits that he had received in tribute from him. And he vexed him greatly
    54: But after this, Trypho returned, and with him was Antiochus, the adolescent boy, and he reigned, and he put a diadem on himself
    55: And there assembled before him all the troops, which Demetrius had dispersed, and they fought against him. And he turned his back and fled
    56: And Trypho took the elephants, and he obtained Antioch
    57: And young Antiochus wrote to Jonathan, saying: “I confirm you in the priesthood, and I appoint you over the four cities, so as to be among the king’s friends.
    58: And he sent him vessels of gold for his ministry, and he gave him the authority to drink from gold, and to be clothed in purple, and to have a golden clasp
    59: And he appointed his brother Simon as governor, from the borders of Tyre, all the way to the borders of Egypt
    60: Then Jonathan went out, and he passed through the cities across the river. And all the armies of Syria were gathered together in assistance to him, and he came to Askalon, and those from the city met him honorably
    61: And he went from there to Gaza. And those who were in Gaza closed themselves in. And so he besieged it, and he burned all that was around the city, and he plundered it
    62: And those of Gaza petitioned Jonathan, and he pledged to them with his right hand, and he accepted their sons as hostages and sent them to Jerusalem. And he traveled through the country, as far as Damascus
    63: And Jonathan heard that the leaders of Demetrius were acting treacherously at Kadesh, which is in Galilee, with a great army, intending to remove him from the affairs of the kingdom
    64: And he went to meet them. But he left his brother Simon behind in the countryside
    65: And Simon took a position against Bethzur, and he assailed it for many days, and he closed them in
    66: And they asked him to accept a pledge, and he granted this to them. And he cast them out of there, and he seized the city, and he placed a garrison in it
    67: And Jonathan and his camp took a position by the water of Gennesaret, and, before first light, they were standing watch in the plains of Hazor
    68: And behold, an army of foreigners met him in the plains. And they set up an ambush against him in the mountains. But he met them from the opposite direction
    69: Yet those lying in ambush then rose up from their places and joined them in combat
    70: And all those who were from Jonathan’s side fled, and not one of them was left, except Mattathias, the son of Absalom, and Judas, the son of Chalphi, the leader of military training
    71: And so Jonathan tore his garments, and he placed dirt on his head, and he prayed
    72: And Jonathan turned back toward them in battle, and he put them to flight, and they fought
    73: And when those from his side, who had fled, saw this, they returned to him, and with him they all pursued them, even to Kadesh, to their camp, and they even passed beyond there
    74: And there fell from the foreigners on that day three thousand men. And Jonathan returned to Jerusalem

  Chapter 12.

    1: And Jonathan saw that time was on his side, and he chose men, and he sent them to Rome, to confirm and renew the peace agreement with them
    2: And he sent letters to the Spartans, and to other places, according to the same form
    3: And they went to Rome and entered into the senate house, and they said, “Jonathan, the high priest, and the nation of the Jews, have sent us to renew the peace and alliance, as it was before.
    4: And they gave letters to them, to those in each place, so that they would lead them into the land of Judah with peace
    5: And this is a copy of the letters that Jonathan wrote to the Spartans
    6: “Jonathan, the high priest, and the elders of the people, and the priests, and the rest of the people of the Jews, to the Spartans, their brothers: greetings
    7: Now, some time ago, letters were sent to Onias, the high priest from Arius, who reigned then among you, so that you would be our brothers, just as the copy that is written below states
    8: And Onias received the man whom you had sent with honor. And he received the letters, in which was conveyed the alliance and peace treaty
    9: We, though, have no need of these things, having for our solace the sacred books, which are in our hands
    10: We prefer to send to you, so as to renew the brotherhood and friendship, lest we should, in effect, become a stranger to you, for much time has passed since you sent to us
    11: Therefore, we will remember you, at all times without ceasing, in our solemnities and other days, when it is fitting, in the sacrifices that we offer, and in our observances, just as it is fitting and right to remember brothers
    12: And so, we rejoice at your glory
    13: But many tribulations and many wars have surrounded us, and the kings who are around us have fought against us
    14: But we are not willing to trouble you, nor the rest of our allies and friends, about these battles
    15: For we have assistance from heaven, and we have been delivered, and our enemies have been humbled
    16: And so, we have chosen Numenius, the son of Antiochus, and Antipater, the son of Jason, and we have sent them to the Romans, to renew the former peace treaty and alliance with them
    17: And so, we have commanded them to also come to you, and to greet you, and to deliver our letters to you, about the renewal of our brotherhood
    18: And now, you would do well to respond to us about these things.
    19: And this is a copy of the letters that he sent to Onias
    20: “Arius, king of the Spartans, to Onias, the great priest: greetings
    21: It is found in scripture, about the Spartans and the Jews, that they are brothers, and that they are of the family of Abraham
    22: And since we know these things, you would do well to write to us about your peace
    23: But we also have written back to you that our cattle and our possessions are yours, and yours are ours. And so, we have commanded that these things should be announced to you.
    24: And Jonathan heard that the leaders from Demetrius had returned again with a greater army than before, so as to fight against him
    25: And so, he departed from Jerusalem, and he met them in the region of Hamath. For he did not give them time to enter into his own region
    26: And he sent spies into their camp, and, returning, they reported that they planned to come upon them in the night
    27: And when the sun had set, Jonathan instructed his men to stand watch, and to be in arms, ready to fight, all night long, and he stationed guards around the camp
    28: And the adversaries heard that Jonathan was prepared, with his own, for warfare. And they were struck with fear and dread in their heart. And they kindled fires in their camp
    29: But Jonathan, and those who were with him, did not know about it until morning. For they saw the lights burning
    30: And Jonathan pursued them, but did not overtake them. For they had crossed the river Eleutherus
    31: And Jonathan diverted toward the Arabians, who are called Zabadeans. And he struck them and took their spoils
    32: And he regrouped and came to Damascus, and he passed through all that region
    33: But Simon went forth and came as far as Askalon, and the nearby fortresses, but he turned aside to Joppa and occupied it
    34: (for he had heard that they intended to hand over the fortress that was on the side of Demetrius) and he stationed a guard there to keep it
    35: And Jonathan returned, and he called together the elders of the people, and he decided with them to build fortresses in Judea
    36: and to build up the walls in Jerusalem, and to raise a great height between the stronghold and the city, in order to separate it from the city, so that it would stand alone and would have neither buying, nor selling there
    37: And they came together to build up the city. And the wall that was over the brook, toward the rising of the sun, was fallen. And he repaired that which is called Chaphenatha
    38: And Simon rebuilt Adida in Shephelah, and he fortified it, and he set up gates and bars
    39: And so, when Trypho had decided to reign over Asia, and to assume the diadem, and to extend his hand against king Antiochus
    40: he was afraid, lest Jonathan might not permit him, but might fight against him. So he sought to seize him and to kill him. And he rose up and went to Bethshan
    41: And Jonathan went out to meet him with forty thousand men chosen for battle, and he came to Bethshan
    42: And when Trypho saw that Jonathan came with a great army to extend his hand against him, he was afraid
    43: And so he received him with honor, and he commended him to all his friends, and he gave him gifts. And he instructed his troops to obey him, just as himself
    44: And he said to Jonathan: “Why have you troubled all the people, when there is no war between us
    45: And now, send them back to their houses, but choose for yourself a few men, who may remain with you, and come with me to Ptolemais, and I will deliver it to you, and the rest of the fortresses, and the army, and all who are in charge of governing, and I will turn and go away. For this is the reason that I came.
    46: And Jonathan believed him, and he did as he said. And he sent away his army, and they departed into the land of Judah
    47: But he retained with him three thousand men, of whom he sent two thousand into Galilee, and one thousand came with him
    48: But when Jonathan entered into Ptolemais, those of Ptolemais closed the gates of the city, and they captured him. And all those who entered with him, they executed with the sword
    49: And Trypho sent an army and horsemen into Galilee, and into the great plain, to destroy all the associates of Jonathan
    50: But, when they had thought that Jonathan had been captured and slain, along with all who were with him, they encouraged one another, and they went out prepared for battle
    51: Then those who had pursued them, seeing that they stood for their lives, were turned back
    52: And so, they all came into the land of Judah with peace. And they bewailed Jonathan, and those who had been with him, exceedingly. And Israel mourned with great lamentation
    53: Then all the nations that were all around them sought to crush them. For they said
    54: “They have no leader or helper. Now therefore, let us fight against them and take away the memory of them from among men.

End of day 278.