Day 142:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David. Judge me, Lord, for I have been walking in my innocence, and by hoping in the Lord, I will not be weakened
    2: Examine me, Lord, and test me: enkindle my temperament and my heart
    3: For your mercy is before my eyes, and I am serene in your truth
    4: I have not sat with the council of emptiness, and I will not enter with those who carry out injustice
    5: I have hated the assembly of the malicious; and I will not sit with the impious
    6: I will wash my hands among the innocent, and I will surround your altar, O Lord
    7: so that I may hear the voice of your praise and describe all your wonders
    8: O Lord, I have loved the beauty of your house and the dwelling place of your glory
    9: O God, do not let my soul perish with the impious, nor my life with the men of blood
    10: in whose hands are iniquities: their right hand has been filled by bribes
    11: But as for me, I have been walking in my innocence. Redeem me, and have mercy on me
    12: My foot has stood firm in the straight path. In the churches, I will bless you, O Lord

  Chapter 26.

    1: A Psalm of David, before he was sealed. The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the protector of my life, of whom shall I be afraid
    2: Meanwhile, the guilty draw near to me, so as to eat my flesh. Those who trouble me, my enemies, have themselves been weakened and have fallen
    3: If entrenched armies were to stand together against me, my heart would not fear. If a battle were to rise up against me, I would have hope in this
    4: One thing I have asked of the Lord, this I will seek: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, so that I may behold the delight of the Lord, and may visit his temple
    5: For he has hidden me in his tabernacle. In the day of evils, he has protected me in the hidden place of his tabernacle
    6: He has exalted me upon the rock, and now he has exalted my head above my enemies. I have circled around and offered a sacrifice of loud exclamation in his tabernacle. I will sing, and I will compose a psalm, to the Lord
    7: Hear my voice, O Lord, with which I have cried out to you. Have mercy on me, and hear me
    8: My heart has spoken to you; my face has sought you. I yearn for your face, O Lord
    9: Do not turn your face away from me. In your wrath, do not turn aside from your servant. Be my helper. Do not abandon me, and do not despise me, O God, my Saviour
    10: For my father and my mother have left me behind, but the Lord has taken me up
    11: O Lord, establish a law for me in your way, and direct me in the right path, because of my enemies
    12: Do not surrender me to the souls of those who trouble me. For unjust witnesses have risen up against me, and iniquity has lied to itself
    13: I believe that I shall see the good things of the Lord in the land of the living
    14: Wait for the Lord, act manfully; and let your heart be strengthened, and remain with the Lord

  Chapter 27.

    1: A Psalm of David himself. To you, Lord, I will cry out. My God, do not be silent toward me. For if you remain silent toward me, I will become like those who descend into the pit
    2: Hear, O Lord, the voice of my supplication, when I pray to you, when I lift up my hands toward your holy temple
    3: Do not draw me away together with sinners; and let me not perish with those who work iniquity, who speak peacefully to their neighbor, yet evils are in their hearts
    4: Give to them according to their works and according to the wickedness of their inventions. Assign to them according to the works of their hands. Repay them with their own retribution
    5: Since they have not understood the works of the Lord and the works of his hands, you will destroy them, and you will not build them up
    6: Blessed is the Lord, for he has heard the voice of my supplication
    7: The Lord is my helper and my protector. In him, my heart has hoped and I have been helped. And my flesh has flourished again. And from my will, I shall confess to him
    8: The Lord is the strength of his people and the protector of the salvation of his Christ
    9: O Lord, save your people and bless your inheritance, and reign over them and exalt them, even unto eternity

  Chapter 28.

    1: A Psalm of David, at the completion of the tabernacle. Bring to the Lord, O sons of God, bring to the Lord the sons of rams
    2: Bring to the Lord, glory and honor. Bring to the Lord, glory for his name. Adore the Lord in his holy court
    3: The voice of the Lord is over the waters. The God of majesty has thundered. The Lord is over many waters
    4: The voice of the Lord is in virtue. The voice of the Lord is in magnificence
    5: The voice of the Lord shatters the cedars. And the Lord will shatter the cedars of Lebanon
    6: And it will break them into pieces, like a calf of Lebanon, and in the same way as the beloved son of the single-horned beast
    7: The voice of the Lord cuts through the flame of fire
    8: The voice of the Lord shakes the desert. And the Lord will quake the desert of Kadesh
    9: The voice of the Lord is preparing the stags, and he will reveal the dense woods. And in his temple, all will speak his glory
    10: The Lord causes the great flood to dwell. And the Lord will sit as King in eternity
    11: The Lord will give virtue to his people. The Lord will bless his people in peace

End of day 142.