Day 201:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['36', '37', '38', '39']:

  Chapter 36.

    1: O God of all, take pity on us, and look with favor on us, and show us the light of your compassion
    2: And send your fear upon the Gentiles, who have not sought you, so that they may acknowledge that there is no God except you, and so that they may declare your great deeds
    3: Lift up your hand over unbelieving nations, so that they may see your power
    4: For just as, in their sight, you have been sanctified in us, so also, in our sight, you will be magnified in them
    5: So may they know you, as we also have known you. For there is no God apart from you, O Lord
    6: Renew your signs, and work new wonders
    7: Glorify your hand and your right arm
    8: Stir up your fury, and pour out your wrath
    9: Take away our adversary, and afflict our enemy
    10: Hasten the time, and remember the end, so that they may declare your miracles
    11: Let those who escape be devoured by the wrath of fire. And let those who harass your people find perdition
    12: Crush the head of the leaders of the enemies, for they say: “There is no other beside us.
    13: Gather together all the tribes of Jacob, so that they may acknowledge that there is no God except you, and so that they may declare your great deeds. And you will inherit them, as from the beginning
    14: Take pity on your people, over whom your name has been invoked, and on Israel, whom you have treated as your firstborn
    15: Take pity on Jerusalem, the city of your sanctification, the city of your rest
    16: Fill Zion with your ineffable words, and fill your people with your glory
    17: Give testimony to those who have been your creations from the beginning, and lift up the prophecies which the former prophets spoke in your name
    18: Give a reward to those who endure for you, so that your prophets may be found to be faithful. And heed the prayers of your servants
    19: in accord with the blessing of Aaron over your people. And direct us in the way of justice, and let all who inhabit the earth know that you are God, the Beholder of all ages
    20: The belly can devour any food, yet one meal is better than another
    21: The palate tests the meat of wild animals, and the understanding heart tests false words
    22: A corrupt heart will cause grief, and a man of experience will resist it
    23: A woman can receive any male, yet one daughter is better than another
    24: The beauty of a wife cheers the face of her husband, and rises above his desire, above all the desires of man
    25: If she offers healing words, then she both comforts and shows mercy; and so her husband is not like other men
    26: He who holds to a good wife establishes a possession. She is a helper in agreement with him, and she is a pillar of rest
    27: Where there is no hedge, a possession will be trampled. And where there is no wife, he will mourn her absence
    28: Who will trust one who has no nest, and who conceals himself wherever his course may take him, like a well-equipped robber passing from city to city

  Chapter 37.

    1: Every friend will say: “I also am a close friend.” But there is a friend who is a friend in name only. Is this not a grief even unto death
    2: But a companion and friend may turn into an enemy
    3: O wicked presumption! From what were you created that you would cover the dry land with your malice and deceitfulness
    4: A companion may rejoice with his friend in good times, but in a time of tribulation, he will be an adversary
    5: There is a companion who commiserates with a friend for the sake of the stomach, but he will shield himself from the enemy
    6: You should not forget your friend in your soul, and you should not be unmindful of him in your wealth
    7: Do not choose to consult with someone who waits in ambush for you. And hide your counsel from those who rival you
    8: Every counselor offers advice, but some are counselors only for themselves
    9: Guard your soul from a counselor. And know beforehand what his interests are. For he will form thoughts from his own soul
    10: Otherwise, he may set a signpost in the ground, and he may say to you
    11: “Your own way is good.” But then he will stand at a distance to see what befalls you
    12: Do not discuss holiness with an irreligious man, nor justice with one who is unjust. You should not speak with a woman about her who is a rival, nor with a coward about war, nor with a merchant about exaggeration, nor with a buyer about selling, nor with a spiteful man about giving thanks
    13: nor with the impious about piety, nor with the dishonest about honesty, nor with the field worker about other kinds of work
    14: nor with a worker hired for a year about the end of the year, nor with a lazy servant about great works. You should pay no heed to these persons in any matter of counsel
    15: But be continually with a holy man, with anyone whom you know to observe the fear of God
    16: whose soul is in agreement with your own soul, and who, when you falter in the dark, will share your sorrows
    17: And establish a heart of good counsel within yourself. For there is nothing of greater usefulness to you than this
    18: At any time, the soul of a holy man declares more truths than seven vigilant watchmen sitting in a high place
    19: But concerning all things, pray to the Most High, so that he may direct your way in truth
    20: In all your works, let a true word precede you, with steadfast counsel before every deed
    21: A wicked word can change the heart. From the heart four kinds of things arise: good and evil, life and death. And the tongue is continually their ruler. There is a man who is an astute teacher of many, and yet this is useless to his own soul
    22: A man of experience has taught many, and this is pleasant to his own soul
    23: Whoever speaks mere rhetoric is hateful; he will be deceived in every matter
    24: Grace is not given to him from the Lord. For he has been deprived of all wisdom
    25: There is a wise man who is wise within his own soul, and the fruit of his understanding is praiseworthy
    26: A wise man instructs his own people, and the fruit of his understanding is faithful
    27: A wise man will be filled with blessings, and those who see will praise him
    28: The life of a man is in the number of his days. But the days of Israel are innumerable
    29: A wise man will inherit honor among the people, and his name will live in eternity
    30: Son, test your own mind in your life, and if it is lacking, you should not give it authority
    31: For not all things are fitting for all persons, and not every kind of thing is agreeable to every soul
    32: Do not choose to be eager during any feast, and you should not act with excess toward any food
    33: For in excessive eating there will be infirmity, and gluttony will continue even unto illness
    34: By excessive drinking, many have passed away. But he who abstains will add to his life

  Chapter 38.

    1: Honor the physician because of necessity, and because the Most High created him
    2: For all healing is from God, and so he will receive gifts from the King
    3: The expertise of the physician will lift up his head, and in the sight of great men, he will be praised
    4: The Most High has created medicines from the earth, and a prudent man will not abhor them
    5: Was not bitter water made sweet with wood
    6: The benefits of these things is recognized by men, and the Most High has given this knowledge to men, so that he may be honored in his wonders
    7: By these things, he will cure or mitigate their suffering, and the pharmacist will make soothing ointments, and he will form healing medicines, and there will be no end to his works
    8: For the peace of God is upon the surface of the earth
    9: Son, in your infirmity, you should not neglect yourself, but pray to the Lord, and he will cure you
    10: Turn away from sin, and direct your hands, and cleanse your heart from every offense
    11: Give a sweet offering, and a memorial of fine flour, and fatten your oblation, but also give a place to the physician
    12: For the Lord created him. And so, do not let him depart from you, for his works are necessary
    13: For there is a time when you may fall into their hands
    14: Truly, they will beseech the Lord, so that he may direct their treatments and cures, for the sake of their way of life
    15: He who sins in the sight of the One who made him will fall into the hands of the physician
    16: Son, shed tears over the dead, and begin to weep, as if you had suffered dreadfully. And according to judgment, cover his body, and you should not neglect his burial
    17: And though you will sink down into bitterness, bear his mourning for one day, and then be consoled in your sadness
    18: And carry out his mourning, according to his merit, for one or two days because of this loss
    19: Yet sadness hastens death and overwhelms strength, and the sorrow of the heart bows down the neck
    20: When one is taken away, sorrow remains. But the resources of a destitute man is found in his heart
    21: You should not give your heart over to sadness, but push it away from you. And remember the very end
    22: Do not be willing to forget this; for there is no turning back. Otherwise, it will not benefit you, and you will cause great harm to yourself
    23: Call to mind my judgment. For so shall it be for you also. Yesterday is mine, and today is yours
    24: When the deceased is at rest, let his memory rest also. And console him at the departure of his spirit
    25: The wisdom of a scribe is found in his time of leisure. So whoever has less to do will gain wisdom
    26: With what wisdom will someone be filled who holds the plow, and who boasts of the cattle prod that drives the oxen forward, and who is occupied in these labors, and whose only conversation is about the offspring of bulls
    27: He will give his mind over to the plowing of furrows, and his vigilance to the fattening of the cows
    28: Similarly, every craftsman and artisan, who crafts in the night as well as in the day, who sculpts graven seals, and who, by his diligence, varies the image, will give his mind over to the likeness of the image. And he will complete the work by his vigilance
    29: The blacksmith, sitting by his anvil and considering a work of iron, is similar. The steam from the fire singes his flesh, and he struggles against the heat of the furnace
    30: The voice of the hammer is ever in his ears, and his eye is upon the pattern of the ironwork
    31: He gives his heart to the completion of his work, and his vigilance adorns it to perfection
    32: The potter, sitting at his work and turning the wheel with his feet, is similar. He has settled into a continual concern for his work, and there is a rhythm in all that he does
    33: He forms the clay with his arm, and he bends his strength over his feet
    34: He will give his heart over to the completion of the glazing, and his vigilance to the cleansing of the furnace
    35: All these persons trust in their own hands, and each one is wise in his own art
    36: Without these persons, a city is not built
    37: But they will neither inhabit nor walk around in the city. And they will not go across to the church
    38: They will not sit upon the seats of judges, and they will not understand a decree of judgment. And they will not make clear discipline and judgment, and they will not be found to understand parables
    39: But they will strengthen the state of the world, and their prayer will be in their artistic works, applying their soul, and searching the law of the Most High

  Chapter 39.

    1: A wise man will seek the wisdom of all the ancients, and he will be occupied in the prophets
    2: He will preserve the words of renowned men, and he will enter with them into the subtleties of parables
    3: He will search for the hidden meanings of proverbs, and he will become familiar with the mysteries of parables
    4: He will minister in the midst of great men, and he will appear in the sight of the foremost leader
    5: He will pass through the land of foreign nations. For he will test good and evil among men
    6: At first light, he will offer his heart with watchfulness to the Lord who made him, and he will pray in the sight of the Most High
    7: He will open his mouth in prayer, and he will make supplication for his offenses
    8: For if the great Lord is willing, he will fill him with the Spirit of understanding
    9: And he will send forth the eloquence of his wisdom like rain showers, and in his prayer, he will confess to the Lord
    10: And he will direct his counsel and his discipline, and he will meditate on his mysteries
    11: He will make the discipline of his doctrine clear, and he will glory in the law of the covenant of the Lord
    12: Many persons will together praise his wisdom, and it will never be abolished, for all ages
    13: The memory of him will not fade away, and his name will be sought from generation to generation
    14: The peoples will declare his wisdom, and the Church will announce his praise
    15: While he remains, he leaves behind a name greater than a thousand, and when he will rest, it will be to his benefit
    16: I will meditate further, so that I may explain. For I have been filled with a passion
    17: In a voice, he says: Listen to me, divine fruits. You shall bear fruit, like roses planted beside streams of waters
    18: You shall have a sweet fragrance, like the cedars of Lebanon
    19: Blossom with flowers, like the lily, and diffuse a fragrance, and sprout leaves in grace, and give praise with canticles, and bless the Lord in his works
    20: Give magnificence to his name, and confess to him with the voice of your lips and with the canticles of your mouth and with stringed instruments. And in so praising him, you will confess
    21: All the works of the Lord are very good
    22: At his word, the waters stood still, as if piled together. And at the words of his mouth, the waters were contained, as if in basins of water
    23: For it is made pleasing by his precept, and there is no decrease in his salvation
    24: The works of all flesh are in his sight, and there is nothing hidden from his eyes
    25: His gaze is from eternity to eternity, and nothing is a wonder in his sight
    26: Let it not be said: “What is this?” or, “What is that?” For all things will be sought in their time
    27: His blessing has overflowed like a river
    28: In the same way that a flood inundates the dry land, so also will his wrath inherit the peoples that have not sought him
    29: In the same way that he turned the waters into dry land, and made the earth dry, and just as his ways have been directed for their journey, so also will sinners stumble before his wrath
    30: From the beginning, good things were created for those who are good, and similarly, good and evil things are for those who are wicked
    31: The principal things necessary for the life of men are: water, fire, and iron, salt, milk, and flour for bread, and honey, and the grape cluster, and oil, and clothing
    32: All these things will be used for good by those who are holy, but they will be turned to evil use by the impious and by sinners
    33: There are spirits that have been created for vengeance, and they strengthen their torments by their fury
    34: In the time of the consummation, they will pour forth their strength. And they will appease the fury of the One who made them
    35: Fire, hail, famine, and death: all these were created for vengeance
    36: The teeth of wild beasts, and scorpions, and serpents, and the spear: all these take vengeance upon the impious, unto utter destruction
    37: At his command, they will feast. And they will be prepared upon the earth until they are needed. And in their time, they will not ignore his word
    38: For this reason, from the beginning, I was strengthened, and I have meditated, and I have considered, and I have put these things in writing
    39: All the works of the Lord are good, and he will provide for each work in its own hour
    40: Let it not be said: “This is worse than that.” For all things will be tested in their time
    41: And now, with the whole heart and mouth, give praise to him, and bless the name of the Lord

End of day 201.