Day 293:

Reading Mark, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter, and James, and John; and he led them separately to a lofty mountain alone; and he was transfigured before them
    2: And his vestments became radiant and exceedingly white like snow, with such a brilliance as no fuller on earth is able to achieve
    3: And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses; and they were speaking with Jesus
    4: And in response, Peter said to Jesus: “Master, it is good for us to be here. And so let us make three tabernacles, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
    5: For he did not know what he was saying. For they were overwhelmed by fear
    6: And there was a cloud overshadowing them. And a voice came from the cloud, saying: “This is my most beloved Son. Listen to him.
    7: And immediately, looking around, they no longer saw anyone, except Jesus alone with them
    8: And as they were descending from the mountain, he instructed them not to relate to anyone what they had seen, until after the Son of man will have risen again from the dead
    9: And they kept the word to themselves, arguing about what “after he will have risen from the dead” might mean
    10: And they questioned him, saying: “Then why do the Pharisees and the scribes say that Elijah must arrive first?
    11: And in response, he said to them: “Elijah, when he will arrive first, shall restore all things. And in the manner that it has been written about the Son of man, so must he suffer many things and be condemned
    12: But I say to you, that Elijah also has arrived, (and they have done to him whatever they wanted) just as it has been written about him.
    13: And approaching his disciples, he saw a great crowd surrounding them, and the scribes were arguing with them
    14: And soon all the people, seeing Jesus, were astonished and struck with fear, and hurrying to him, they greeted him
    15: And he questioned them, “What are you arguing about among yourselves?
    16: And one from the crowd responded by saying: “Teacher, I have brought to you my son, who has a mute spirit
    17: And whenever it takes hold of him, it throws him down, and he foams and gnashes with his teeth, and he becomes unconscious. And I asked your disciples to cast him out, and they could not.
    18: And answering them, he said: “O unbelieving generation, how long must I be with you? How long shall I endure you? Bring him to me.
    19: And they brought him. And when he had seen him, immediately the spirit disturbed him. And having been thrown to the ground, he rolled around foaming
    20: And he questioned his father, “How long has this been happening to him?” But he said: “From infancy
    21: And often it casts him into fire or into water, in order to destroy him. But if you are able to do anything, help us and take pity on us.
    22: But Jesus said to him, “If you are able to believe: all things are possible to one who believes.
    23: And immediately the father of the boy, crying out with tears, said: “I do believe, Lord. Help my unbelief.
    24: And when Jesus saw the crowd rushing together, he admonished the unclean spirit, saying to him, “Deaf and mute spirit, I command you, leave him; and do not enter into him anymore.
    25: And crying out, and convulsing him greatly, he departed from him. And he became like one who is dead, so much so that many said, “He is dead.
    26: But Jesus, taking him by the hand, lifted him up. And he arose
    27: And when he had entered into the house, his disciples questioned him privately, “Why were we unable to cast him out?
    28: And he said to them, “This kind is able to be expelled by nothing other than prayer and fasting.
    29: And setting out from there, they passed through Galilee. And he intended that no one know about it
    30: Then he taught his disciples, and he said to them, “For the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and having been killed, on the third day he will rise again.
    31: But they did not understand the word. And they were afraid to question him
    32: And they went to Capernaum. And when they were in the house, he questioned them, “What did you discuss on the way?
    33: But they were silent. For indeed, on the way, they had disputed among themselves as to which of them was greater
    34: And sitting down, he called the twelve, and he said to them, “If anyone wants to be first, he shall be the last of all and the minister of all.
    35: And taking a child, he set him in their midst. And when he had embraced him, he said to them
    36: “Whoever receives one such child in my name, receives me. And whoever receives me, receives not me, but him who sent me.
    37: John responded to him by saying, “Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name; he does not follow us, and so we prohibited him.
    38: But Jesus said: “Do not prohibit him. For there is no one who can act with virtue in my name and soon speak evil about me
    39: For whoever is not against you is for you
    40: For whoever, in my name, will give you a cup of water to drink, because you belong to Christ: Amen I say to you, he shall not lose his reward
    41: And whoever will have scandalized one of these little ones who believe in me: it would be better for him if a great millstone were placed around his neck and he were thrown into the sea
    42: And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off: it is better for you to enter into life disabled, than having two hands to go into Hell, into the unquenchable fire
    43: where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished
    44: But if your foot causes you to sin, chop it off: it is better for you to enter into eternal life lame, than having two feet to be cast into the Hell of unquenchable fire
    45: where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished
    46: But if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out: it is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into the Hell of fire
    47: where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished
    48: For all shall be salted with fire, and every victim shall be salted with salt
    49: Salt is good: but if the salt has become bland, with what will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace among yourselves.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And rising up, he went from there into the area of Judea beyond the Jordan. And again, the crowd came together before him. And just as he was accustomed to do, again he taught them
    2: And approaching, the Pharisees questioned him, testing him: “Is it lawful for a man to dismiss his wife?
    3: But in response, he said to them, “What did Moses instruct you?
    4: And they said, “Moses gave permission to write a bill of divorce and to dismiss her.
    5: But Jesus responded by saying: “It was due to the hardness of your heart that he wrote that precept for you
    6: But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female
    7: Because of this, a man shall leave behind his father and mother, and he shall cling to his wife
    8: And these two shall be one in flesh. And so, they are now, not two, but one flesh
    9: Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate.
    10: And again, in the house, his disciples questioned him about the same thing
    11: And he said to them: “Whoever dismisses his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her
    12: And if a wife dismisses her husband, and is married to another, she commits adultery.
    13: And they brought to him the little children, so that he might touch them. But the disciples admonished those who brought them
    14: But when Jesus saw this, he took offense, and he said to them: “Allow the little ones to come to me, and do not prohibit them. For of such as these is the kingdom of God
    15: Amen I say to you, whoever will not accept the kingdom of God like a little child, will not enter into it.
    16: And embracing them, and laying his hands upon them, he blessed them
    17: And when he had departed on the way, a certain one, running up and kneeling before him, asked him, “Good Teacher, what shall I do, so that I may secure eternal life?
    18: But Jesus said to him, “Why call me good? No one is good except the one God
    19: You know the precepts: “Do not commit adultery. Do not kill. Do not steal. Do not speak false testimony. Do not deceive. Honor your father and mother.
    20: But in response, he said to him, “Teacher, all these I have observed from my youth.
    21: Then Jesus, gazing at him, loved him, and he said to him: “One thing is lacking to you. Go, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and then you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me.
    22: But he went away grieving, having been greatly saddened by the word. For he had many possessions
    23: And Jesus, looking around, said to his disciples, “How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
    24: And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus, answering again, said to them: “Little sons, how difficult it is for those who trust in money to enter into the kingdom of God
    25: It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for the rich to enter into the kingdom of God.
    26: And they wondered even more, saying among themselves, “Who, then, can be saved?
    27: And Jesus, gazing at them, said: “With men it is impossible; but not with God. For with God all things are possible.
    28: And Peter began to say to him, “Behold, we have left all things and have followed you.
    29: In response, Jesus said: “Amen I say to you, There is no one who has left behind house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or land, for my sake and for the Gospel
    30: who will not receive one hundred times as much, now in this time: houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and land, with persecutions, and in the future age eternal life
    31: But many of the first shall be last, and the last shall be first.
    32: Now they were on the way ascending to Jerusalem. And Jesus went ahead of them, and they were astonished. And those following him were afraid. And again, taking aside the twelve, he began to tell them what was about to happen to him
    33: “For behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be handed over to the leaders of the priests, and to the scribes, and the elders. And they will condemn him to death, and they will hand him over to the Gentiles
    34: And they will mock him, and spit on him, and scourge him, and put him to death. And on the third day, he will rise again.
    35: And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, drew near to him, saying, “Teacher, we wish that whatever we will ask, you would do for us.
    36: But he said to them, “What do you want me to do for you?
    37: And they said, “Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right and the other at your left, in your glory.
    38: But Jesus said to them: “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink from the chalice from which I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am to be baptized?
    39: But they said to him, “We can.” Then Jesus said to them: “Indeed, you shall drink from the chalice, from which I drink; and you shall be baptized with the baptism, with which I am to be baptized
    40: But to sit at my right, or at my left, is not mine to give to you, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared.
    41: And the ten, upon hearing this, began to be indignant toward James and John
    42: But Jesus, calling them, said to them: “You know that those who seem to be leaders among the Gentiles dominate them, and their leaders exercise authority over them
    43: But it is not to be this way among you. Instead, whoever would become greater shall be your minister
    44: and whoever will be first among you shall be the servant of all
    45: So, too, the Son of man has not come so that they would minister to him, but so that he would minister and would give his life as a redemption for many.
    46: And they went to Jericho. And as he was setting out from Jericho with his disciples and a very numerous multitude, Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, a blind man, sat begging beside the way
    47: And when he had heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and to say, “Jesus, Son of David, take pity on me.
    48: And many admonished him to be quiet. But he cried out all the more, “Son of David, take pity on me.
    49: And Jesus, standing still, instructed him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying to him: “Be at peace. Arise. He is calling you.
    50: And casting aside his garment, he leapt up and went to him
    51: And in response, Jesus said to him, “What do you want, that I should do for you?” And the blind man said to him, “Master, that I may see.
    52: Then Jesus said to him, “Go, your faith has made you whole.” And immediately he saw, and he followed him on the way

  Chapter 11.

    1: And as they were approaching Jerusalem and Bethania, toward the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples
    2: and he said to them: “Go into the village that is opposite you, and immediately upon entering there, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has yet sat. Release him and bring him
    3: And if anyone will say to you: ‘What are you doing?’ Say that the Lord has need of him. And he will immediately send him here.
    4: And going out, they found the colt tied before the outer gate, at the meeting of two ways. And they untied him
    5: And some of those who were standing there said to them, “What are you doing by releasing the colt?
    6: And they spoke to them just as Jesus had instructed them. And they permitted them
    7: And they led the colt to Jesus. And they placed their garments on it; and he sat upon it
    8: Then many spread their garments along the way; but others cut down leafy branches from trees and scattered them on the way
    9: And those who went ahead, and those who followed, cried out saying: “Hosanna! Blessed is he who has arrived in the name of the Lord
    10: Blessed is the advent of the kingdom of our father David. Hosanna in the highest!
    11: And he entered into Jerusalem, into the temple. And having looked around at everything, since it was now the evening hour, he went out to Bethania with the twelve
    12: And the next day, as they were departing from Bethania, he was hungry
    13: And when he had seen a fig tree with leaves in the distance, he went to it, in case he might find something on it. And when he had gone to it, he found nothing but leaves. For it was not the season for figs
    14: And in response, he said to it, “From now on and forever, may no one eat fruit from you again!” And his disciples heard this
    15: And they went to Jerusalem. And when he had entered into the temple, he began to cast out the sellers and the buyers in the temple. And he overturned the tables of the moneychangers and the chairs of the vendors of doves
    16: And he would not permit anyone to carry goods through the temple
    17: And he taught them, saying: “Is it not written: ‘For my house shall be called the house of prayer for all nations?’ But you have made it into a den of robbers.
    18: And when the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, had heard this, they sought a means by which they might destroy him. For they feared him, because the entire multitude was in admiration over his doctrine
    19: And when evening had arrived, he departed from the city
    20: And when they passed by in the morning, they saw that the fig tree had dried up from the roots
    21: And Peter, remembering, said to him, “Master, behold, the fig tree that you cursed has withered.
    22: And in response, Jesus said to them: “Have the faith of God
    23: Amen I say to you, that whoever will say to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ and who will not have hesitated in his heart, but will have believed: then whatever he has said be done, it shall be done for him
    24: For this reason, I say to you, all things whatsoever that you ask for when praying: believe that you will receive them, and they will happen for you
    25: And when you stand to pray, if you hold anything against anyone, forgive them, so that your Father, who is in heaven, may also forgive you your sins
    26: But if you will not forgive, neither will your Father, who is in heaven, forgive you your sins.
    27: And they went again to Jerusalem. And when he was walking in the temple, the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, and the elders approached him
    28: And they said to him: “By what authority do you do these things? And who has given you this authority, so that you would do these things?
    29: But in response, Jesus said to them: “I also will ask you one word, and if you answer me, I will tell you by what authority I do these things
    30: The baptism of John: was it from heaven or from men? Answer me.
    31: But they discussed it among themselves, saying: “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Then why did you not believe him?
    32: If we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the people. For they all hold that John was a true prophet.
    33: And answering, they said to Jesus, “We do not know.” And in response, Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.

  Chapter 12.

    1: And he began to speak to them in parables: “A man dug a vineyard, and surrounded it with a hedge, and dug a pit, and built a tower, and he loaned it out to farmers, and he set out on a long journey
    2: And in time, he sent a servant to the farmers, in order to receive some of the fruit of the vineyard from the farmers
    3: But they, having apprehended him, beat him and sent him away empty
    4: And again, he sent another servant to them. And they wounded him on the head, and they treated him with contempt
    5: And again, he sent another, and him they killed, and many others: some they beat, but others they killed
    6: Therefore, having still one son, most dear to him, he sent him also to them, at the very end, saying, ‘For they will reverence my son.
    7: But the settlers said one to another: ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him. And then the inheritance will be ours.
    8: And apprehending him, they killed him. And they cast him out of the vineyard
    9: Therefore, what will the lord of the vineyard do?” “He will come and destroy the settlers. And he will give the vineyard to others.
    10: “And so, have you not read this scripture?: ‘The stone which the builders have rejected, the same has been made the head of the corner
    11: By the Lord has this been done, and it is wondrous in our eyes.’ 
    12: And they sought to take hold of him, but they feared the crowd. For they knew that he had spoken this parable about them. And leaving him behind, they went away
    13: And they sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to him, so that they might trap him with words
    14: And these, arriving, said to him: “Teacher, we know that you are truthful and that you do not favor anyone; for you do not consider the appearance of men, but you teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give the tribute to Caesar, or should we not give it?
    15: And knowing their skill in deception, he said to them: “Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius, so that I may see it.
    16: And they brought it to him. And he said to them, “Whose image and inscription is this?” They said to him, “Caesar’s.
    17: So in response, Jesus said to them, “Then render to Caesar, the things that are of Caesar; and to God, the things that are of God.” And they wondered over him
    18: And the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, approached him. And they questioned him, saying
    19: “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if any man’s brother will have died and left behind a wife, and not have left behind sons, his brother should take his wife to himself and should raise up offspring for his brother
    20: So then, there were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and he died without leaving behind offspring
    21: And the second took her, and he died. And neither did he leave behind offspring. And the third acted similarly
    22: And in like manner, each of the seven received her and did not leave behind offspring. Last of all, the woman also died
    23: Therefore, in the resurrection, when they will rise again, to which of them will she be a wife? For each of the seven had her as wife.
    24: And Jesus responded by saying to them: “But have you not gone astray, by knowing neither the scriptures, nor the power of God
    25: For when they will be resurrected from the dead, they shall neither marry, nor be given in marriage, but they are like the Angels in heaven
    26: But concerning the dead who rise again, have you not read in the book of Moses, how God spoke to him from the bush, saying: ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?
    27: He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Therefore, you have gone far astray.
    28: And one of the scribes, who had heard them arguing, drew near to him. And seeing that he had answered them well, he questioned him as to which was the first commandment of all
    29: And Jesus answered him: “For the first commandment of all is this: ‘Listen, O Israel. The Lord your God is one God
    30: And you shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart, and from your whole soul, and from your whole mind, and from your whole strength. This is the first commandment.
    31: But the second is similar to it: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.
    32: And the scribe said to him: Well said, Teacher. You have spoken the truth that there is one God, and there is no other beside him
    33: and that he should be loved from the whole heart, and from the whole understanding, and from the whole soul, and from the whole strength. And to love one’s neighbor as one’s self is greater than all holocausts and sacrifices.
    34: And Jesus, seeing that he had responded wisely, said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” And after that, no one dared to question him
    35: And while teaching in the temple, Jesus said in answer: “How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David
    36: For David himself said in the Holy Spirit: ‘The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I set your enemies as your footstool.
    37: Therefore, David himself calls him Lord, and so how can he be his son?” And a great multitude listened to him willingly
    38: And he said to them in his doctrine: “Beware of the scribes, who prefer to walk in long robes and to be greeted in the marketplace
    39: and to sit in the first chairs in the synagogues, and to have the first seats at feasts
    40: who devour the houses of widows under the pretense of long prayers. These shall receive the more extensive judgment.
    41: And Jesus, sitting opposite the offertory box, considered the way in which the crowd cast coins into the offertory, and that many of the wealthy cast in a great deal
    42: But when one poor widow had arrived, she put in two small coins, which is a quarter
    43: And calling together his disciples, he said to them: “Amen I say to you, that this poor widow has put in more than all those who contributed to the offertory
    44: For they all gave from their abundance, yet truly, she gave from her scarcity, even all that she had, her entire living.

End of day 293.