Day 19:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: “These are the judgments which you shall place before them
    2: If you buy a Hebrew servant, six years shall he serve you; in the seventh, he shall depart freely, without charge
    3: With whatever clothing he arrived, with the like let him depart. If he has a wife, his wife also shall depart, at the same time
    4: But if his lord gave him a wife, and she has borne sons and daughters, the woman and her children shall belong to her lord. Yet still, he himself will go out with his clothing
    5: And if the servant will say, ‘I love my lord, and my wife and children, I will not depart freely,
    6: then his lord shall make an offering for him to the heavens, and it shall be applied to the door and the posts, and he will pierce his ear with an awl. And he shall be his servant in perpetuity
    7: If anyone sells his daughter to be a servant, she shall not depart as a female servant is accustomed to go out
    8: If she displeases the eyes of her lord, to whom she had been delivered, he shall dismiss her. But he shall have no authority to sell her to a foreign people, even if he despises her
    9: But if he has betrothed her to his son, he shall treat her according to the custom with daughters
    10: And if he takes another for him, he shall provide to the maiden a marriage, and clothing, and he shall not refuse the price of her chastity
    11: If he does not do these three things, she shall depart freely, without money
    12: Whoever strikes a man, intending to murder, shall be put to death
    13: But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God delivered him into his hands, then I will appoint for you a place to which he must flee
    14: If someone murders his neighbor with deliberation, by lying in wait, you shall tear him away from my altar, so that he may die
    15: Whoever strikes his father or mother shall die a death
    16: Whoever will have stolen a man and sold him, having been convicted of the crime, shall be put to death
    17: Whoever speaks evil of his father or mother shall die a death
    18: If men will have quarreled, and one of them has struck his neighbor with a stone or a fist, and he does not die, but lies in bed
    19: if he gets up again and can walk outside on his staff, he who struck him will be innocent, but only if he makes sufficient restitution for his deeds and for the cost of the physicians
    20: Whoever strikes his male or female servant with a staff, and if they have died by his hands, he shall be guilty of a crime
    21: But if he survives for one day or two, he shall not be subject to punishment, because it is his money
    22: If men will have quarreled, and one of them has struck a pregnant woman, and as a result she miscarries, but she herself survives, he shall be subject to as much damage as the husband of the woman shall petition from him, or as arbitrators shall judge
    23: But if her death will have followed, he will repay a life for a life
    24: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot
    25: a scrape for a scrape, a wound for a wound, a bruise for a bruise
    26: If anyone will have struck the eye of his male or female servant, having left them with one eye, he shall release them freely, because of the eye that he has put out
    27: Likewise, if he knocks out a tooth of his male or female servant, he shall similarly release them freely
    28: If an ox has struck a man or a woman with his horn, and if they die, it shall be stoned. And its flesh shall not be eaten; also, the owner of the ox will be innocent
    29: But if the ox had been pushing with his horn, from yesterday and the day before, and they warned his owner, but he did not confine it, and it will have killed a man or a woman, then the ox shall be stoned, and his owner shall be killed
    30: But if they have imposed a price on him, he shall give, in exchange for his life, whatever is asked
    31: Likewise, if it has struck a son or a daughter with its horns, it shall be subject to a similar verdict
    32: If it attacks a male or female servant, he shall give thirty shekels of silver to their lord, yet truly the ox shall be stoned
    33: If a man digs or opens a cistern, and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it
    34: then the owner of the cistern shall repay the price of the beasts, and what is dead will belong to him
    35: If the ox of a stranger wounds the ox of another, and it has died, then they shall sell the live ox and divide the price, but the carcass of the dead one they shall distribute between them
    36: But if he knew that his ox had pushed with its horns, yesterday and the day before, and its owner did not confine it, then he shall repay an ox for an ox, and he will receive the whole carcass.

  Chapter 22.

    1: “If anyone will have stolen an ox or a sheep, and if he kills it or sells it, then he will restore five oxen for one ox, and four sheep for one sheep
    2: If a thief will have been discovered breaking into a house, or digging under it, and he has received a mortal wound, he who struck him down will not be guilty of blood
    3: But if he did this when the sun was risen, he has perpetrated a homicide, and he shall die. If he does not have the means to make restitution for the theft, he shall be sold
    4: If whatever he stole should be found with him, a living thing, either an ox, or a donkey, or a sheep, he shall repay double
    5: If there is any damage to a field or a vineyard, when he has released his cattle to pasture on the land of a stranger, he shall repay the best of what he has in his own field, or in his own vineyard, according to the estimation of the damage
    6: If a fire will have been discovered departing from brush, and taking hold in stacks of grain, or in crops standing in the fields, whoever ignited the fire shall repay the damages
    7: If anyone will have entrusted money, or a container, to his friend to keep, and if these have been stolen from the one who received them: if the thief is found, he shall repay double
    8: If the thief is unknown, the lord of the house will be brought before the heavens to swear that he did not lay his hand on the goods of his neighbor
    9: so as to perpetrate any fraud, such as with an ox, or a donkey, or a sheep, or clothing, nor to do anything that would be able to cause damage. The case of both shall be brought before the heavens. And if they give judgment against him, he shall repay double to his neighbor
    10: If anyone will have entrusted a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to the keeping of his neighbor, and it will have died, or become disabled, or have been captured by enemies, and no one saw it
    11: then there shall be an oath between them, that he did not lay his hand on the goods of his neighbor. And the owner shall accept the oath, and he will not be compelled to make restitution
    12: But if it will have been taken away by theft, he shall repay the damages to the owner
    13: If it has been eaten by a wild beast, let him carry what was killed to him, and then he shall not make restitution
    14: If anyone borrows from his neighbor any of these things, and it has died or been disabled when the owner was not present, he shall be compelled to make restitution
    15: But if the owner was present, he shall not make restitution, especially if it had been brought for hired work
    16: If a man has led astray a virgin not yet betrothed, and he has slept with her, he shall pay her dowry and have her as a wife
    17: If the father of the virgin is not willing to give her, he shall pay money according to manner of a dowry, which virgins are accustomed to receive
    18: You shall not permit practitioners of the black arts to live
    19: Whoever has sexual intercourse with an animal shall be put to death
    20: Whoever immolates to gods, other than to the Lord, shall be killed
    21: You shall not harass the newcomer, nor shall you afflict him. For you yourselves were once newcomers in the land of Egypt
    22: You shall not harm a widow or an orphan
    23: If you hurt them, they will cry out to me, and I will hear their cry
    24: And my fury will be enraged, and I will strike you down with the sword. And your wives will become widows, and your sons will become orphans
    25: If you lend money to the poor of my people who live among you, you shall not coerce them like a collector, nor oppress them with usury
    26: If you take a garment from your neighbor as a pledge, you shall return it to him again before the setting of the sun
    27: For it is all that he has to cover himself, to clothe his body; nor does he have anything else in which to sleep. If he cries out to me, I will hear him, because I am compassionate
    28: You shall not disparage the heavens, and you shall not speak evil of the leader of your people
    29: You shall not delay in paying your tithes and your first-fruits. You shall give the firstborn of your sons to me
    30: You shall do likewise with those of the oxen and the sheep. For seven days, let it be with its mother; on the eighth day you shall repay it to me
    31: You shall be holy men for me. The flesh, from which beasts will have tasted, you shall not eat, but you will throw it to the dogs.

  Chapter 23.

    1: “You shall not accept a lying voice. Neither shall you join your hand so as to give false testimony on behalf on the impious
    2: You shall not follow the crowd in doing evil. Neither shall you go astray in judgment, by agreeing with the majority opinion, apart from the truth
    3: Likewise, you shall not show pity in judgment of the poor
    4: If you come across an ox or a donkey of your enemy, which has gone astray, lead it back to him
    5: If you see the donkey of one who hates you, fallen under its burden, you shall not pass by without lifting it up with him
    6: You shall not deviate in judgment of the poor
    7: You shall flee from lies. The innocent and the just you shall not kill. For I shun the impious
    8: Neither shall you accept bribes, which blind even the prudent and subvert the words of the just
    9: You shall not harass a sojourner, for you know the life of a newcomer. For you yourselves also were sojourners in the land of Egypt
    10: For six years, you shall sow your land and gather its produce
    11: But in the seventh year, you shall release it and cause it to rest, so that the poor of your people may eat. And whatever remains, let the beasts of the field eat it. So shall you do with your vineyard and your olive grove
    12: For six days, you shall work. On the seventh day, you shall cease, so that your ox and your donkey may rest, and so that the newcomer and the son of your handmaid may be refreshed
    13: Preserve all that I have said to you. And by the names of foreign gods you shall not swear; neither shall these be heard from your mouth
    14: Three times in each year, you shall celebrate feasts to me
    15: You shall keep the solemnity of unleavened bread. For seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, just as I instructed you, at the time of the month of new grain, when you departed from Egypt. You shall not appear empty-handed in my sight
    16: for it is the solemnity of the harvest of the first-fruits of your work, of whatever you have sown in the field. Likewise, it is a solemnity at the end of the season, when you will have gathered in all your crops from the field
    17: Three times a year, all your males shall appear before the Lord your God
    18: You shall not immolate the blood of my victim over leaven, nor shall the fat of my solemnity remain until morning
    19: You shall carry the first grain of the land to the house of the Lord your God. You shall not cook a young goat in the milk of its mother
    20: Behold, I will send my Angel, who will go before you, and preserve you on your journey, and lead you into the place that I have prepared
    21: Heed him, and hear his voice, and do not hold him in disregard. For he will not release you when you have sinned, and my name is in him
    22: But if you listen to his voice and do all that I say, I will be an enemy to your enemies, and I will afflict those who afflict you
    23: And my Angel will go before you, and he will bring you to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, whom I will crush
    24: You shall not adore their gods, nor worship them. You shall not do their works, but you shall destroy them and break apart their statues
    25: And you shall serve the Lord your God, so that I may bless your bread and your waters, and so that I may take away sickness from your midst
    26: There will not be fruitless or barren ones in your land. I will fill up the number of your days
    27: I will send my terror to run ahead of you, and I will kill all the people to whom you will enter. And I will turn the backs of all your enemies before you
    28: sending wasps ahead, so that they will put to flight the Hivite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, before you enter
    29: I will not cast them out from your face in one year, lest the land be reduced to a wilderness and the wild beasts increase against you
    30: I will expel them little by little from your sight, until you have expanded and may possess the land
    31: Then I will set your limits to be from the Red Sea to the Sea of the Palestinians, and from the desert all the way to the river. I will deliver into your hands the inhabitants of the land, and I will cast them out from your sight
    32: You shall not enter into a pact with them, nor with their gods
    33: They may not live on your land, lest perhaps they may cause you to sin against me, if you serve their gods, which certainly would be a temptation for you.

  Chapter 24.

    1: He also said to Moses: “Ascend to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy elders out of Israel, and adore from a distance
    2: And only Moses will ascend to the Lord, and these shall not approach. Neither shall the people ascend with him.
    3: Therefore, Moses went and explained to the people all the words of the Lord, as well as the judgments. And all the people responded with one voice: “We will do all the words of the Lord, which he has spoken.
    4: Then Moses wrote all the words of the Lord. And rising up in the morning, he built an altar at the base of the mountain, with twelve titles according to the twelve tribes of Israel
    5: And he sent youths from the sons of Israel, and they offered holocausts, and they immolated calves as peace-offerings to the Lord
    6: And so Moses took one half part of the blood, and he put it into bowls. Then the remaining part he poured over the altar
    7: And taking up the book of the covenant, he read it in the hearing of the people, who said: “All that the Lord has spoken, we will do, and we will be obedient.
    8: In truth, taking up the blood, he sprinkled it on the people, and he said, “This is the blood of the covenant, which the Lord has formed with you concerning all these words.
    9: And Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel ascended
    10: And they saw the God of Israel. And under his feet was something like a work of sapphire stone, or like the sky, when it is serene
    11: Neither did he lay his hand upon those of the sons of Israel who were at a distance. And they saw God, and they ate and drank
    12: Then the Lord said to Moses: “Ascend to me on the mountain, and be there. And I will give to you tablets of stone, and the law and the commandments that I have written. So may you teach them.
    13: Moses rose up, with Joshua his minister. And Moses, ascending on the mountain of God
    14: said to the elders: “Wait here, until we return to you. You have Aaron and Hur with you. If any question arises, you shall refer it to them.
    15: And when Moses had ascended, a cloud covered the mountain
    16: And the glory of the Lord dwelt upon Sinai, covering it with a cloud for six days. And on the seventh day, he called to him from the middle of the mist
    17: Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a burning fire over the summit of the mountain in the sight of the sons of Israel
    18: And Moses, entering into the midst of the cloud, ascended the mountain. And he was there for forty days and forty nights

End of day 19.