Day 89:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Adam, Seth, Enos
    2: Cainan, Mahalalel, Jared
    3: Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech
    4: Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth
    5: The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, Tubal, Meshech, Tiras
    6: And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah
    7: And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim
    8: The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan
    9: And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dadan
    10: Then Cush conceived Nimrod, and he began to be powerful upon the earth
    11: Truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim
    12: as well as Pathrusim and Casluhim: from these the Philistines and the Caphtorim went forth
    13: Truly, Canaan conceived Sidon, his firstborn, as well as the Hittite
    14: and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite
    15: and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite
    16: and also the Arvadian, and the Samarite, and the Hamathite
    17: The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech
    18: Then Arphaxad conceived Shelah, who also himself conceived Eber
    19: And to Eber were born two sons. The name of one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided. And the name of his brother was Joktan
    20: Then Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah
    21: as well as Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah
    22: and then Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, indeed
    23: also Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these are the sons of Joktan
    24: Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah
    25: Eber, Peleg, Reu
    26: Serug, Nahor, Terah
    27: Abram, the same is Abraham
    28: And the sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael
    29: And these are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam
    30: and Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema
    31: Jetur, Naphish, Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael
    32: And the sons of Keturah, the concubine of Abraham, whom she conceived: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan: Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim
    33: And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah
    34: Now Abraham conceived Isaac, whose sons were Esau and Israel
    35: The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah
    36: The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenez, and by Timna, Amalek
    37: The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah
    38: The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, Dishan
    39: The sons of Lotan: Hori, Heman. Now the sister of Lotan was Timna
    40: The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. The sons of Anah: Dishon
    41: The sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Esheban, and Ithran, and Cheran
    42: The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran
    43: Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before there was a king over the sons of Israel: Bela, the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah
    44: Then Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah, from Bozrah, reigned in his place
    45: And when Jobab also had died, Husham, from the land of the Temanites, reigned in his place
    46: Then Husham also passed away, and Hadad, the son of Bedad, reigned in his place. And he struck the Midianites in the land of Moab. The name of his city was Avith
    47: And when Hadad also had died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place
    48: Then Samlah also died, and Shaul from Rehoboth, which is situated beside a river, reigned in his place
    49: Shaul also having died, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place
    50: Then he too died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau. And his wife was called Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab
    51: And Hadar having died, there began to be commanders in Edom in place of kings: commander Thamna, commander Alvah, commander Jetheth
    52: commander Oholibamah, commander Elah, commander Pinon
    53: commander Kanez, commander Teman, commander Mibzar
    54: commander Magdiel, commander Iram. These are the commanders of Edom

  Chapter 2.

    1: And the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun
    2: Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher
    3: The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him from the daughter of Shua, the Canaanite. But Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the Lord, and so he killed him
    4: Now Tamar, his daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Therefore, all the sons of Judah were five
    5: And the sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul
    6: Also, the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, as well as Calcol and Dara, five altogether
    7: The sons of Carmi: Achar, who disturbed Israel and sinned by the theft of what was anathema
    8: The sons of Ethan: Azariah
    9: And the sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai
    10: Then Ram conceived Amminadab. And Amminadab conceived Nahshon, a leader of the sons of Judah
    11: Also, Nahshon conceived Salma, from whom Boaz rose up
    12: Truly, Boaz conceived Obed, who also himself conceived Jesse
    13: Now Jesse conceived the firstborn Eliab, the second Abinadab, the third Shammah
    14: the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai
    15: the sixth Ozem, the seventh David
    16: Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three
    17: And Abigail conceived Amasa, whose father was Jether, the Ishmaelite
    18: Truly, Caleb, the son of Hezron, took a wife named Azubah, of whom he conceived Jerioth. And her sons were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon
    19: And when Azubah had died, Caleb took as wife Ephratha, who bore to him Hur
    20: Now Hur conceived Uri. And Uri conceived Bezalel
    21: And afterwards, Hezron entered to the daughter of Machir, father of Gilead. And he took her when he was sixty years old. And she bore to him Segub
    22: And then Segub conceived Jair, and he possessed twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead
    23: And he seized Geshur and Aram, towns of Jair, and Kenath and its villages, sixty cities. All these were sons of Machir, father of Gilead
    24: Then, when Hezron had died, Caleb entered to Ephratha. Also, Hezron had as wife Abia, who bore to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa
    25: Now sons were born to Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram, his firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah
    26: Jerahmeel also married another wife, named Atarah, who was the mother of Onam
    27: Then too, the sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker
    28: And Onam had sons: Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur
    29: Truly, the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, who bore to him Ahban and Molid
    30: Now the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim. And Seled died without children
    31: Truly, the son of Appaim was Ishi. And Ishi conceived Sheshan. Then Sheshan conceived Ahlai
    32: But the sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai, were Jether and Jonathan. Then Jether also died without children
    33: And Jonathan conceived Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel
    34: Now Sheshan did not have sons, but only daughters, and an Egyptian servant named Jarha
    35: And so he gave to him his daughter as wife, who bore to him Attai
    36: Then Attai conceived Nathan, and Nathan conceived Zabad
    37: Also, Zabad conceived Ephlal, and Ephlal conceived Obed
    38: Obed conceived Jehu; Jehu conceived Azariah
    39: Azariah conceived Helez, and Helez conceived Eleasah
    40: Eleasah conceived Sismai; Sismai conceived Shallum
    41: Shallum conceived Jekamiah; then Jekamiah conceived Elishama
    42: And the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha, his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Mesha, the father of Hebron
    43: Now the sons of Hebron were Korah, and Tapuah, and Rekem, and Shema
    44: Then Shema conceived Raham, the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem conceived Shammai
    45: The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Bethzur
    46: Now Ephah, the concubine of Caleb, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran conceived Gazez
    47: And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph
    48: And Maacah, the concubine of Caleb, bore Sheber and Tirhanah
    49: Then Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, conceived Sheva, the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea. Truly, the daughter of Caleb was Achsah
    50: These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratha: Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim
    51: Salma, the father of Bethlehem; Hareph, the father of Bethgader
    52: Now there were sons for Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim, who saw half the places of rest
    53: And from the kindred of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From these, the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites went forth
    54: The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, the crowns of the house of Joab, and half the places of rest of the Zorathites
    55: as well as the families of the scribes living in Jabesh, those singing and making music, and those dwelling in tents. These are the Kenites, who went forth from Calor, the father of the house of Rechab

  Chapter 3.

    1: Truly, David had these sons, who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second Daniel, from Abigail the Carmelite
    2: the third Absalom, the son of Maacah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth Adonijah, the son of Haggith
    3: the fifth Shephatiah, of Abital; the sixth Ithream, from his wife Eglah
    4: Therefore, six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. Then he reigned for thirty-three years in Jerusalem
    5: Now in Jerusalem, sons were born to him: Shammua, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, these four from Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel
    6: also Ibhar and Elishama
    7: and Eliphelet, and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia
    8: indeed also Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine
    9: All these were sons of David, aside from the sons of the concubines. And they had a sister, Tamar
    10: Now the son of Solomon was Rehoboam, from whom Abijah conceived a son, Asa. And from him, there was born Jehoshaphat
    11: the father of Jehoram. And Jehoram conceived Ahaziah, from whom there was born Jehoash
    12: And his son, Amaziah, conceived Azariah. Then Jotham, the son of Azariah
    13: conceived Ahaz, the father of Hezekiah, from whom was born Manasseh
    14: Then too, Manasseh conceived Amon, the father of Josiah
    15: Now the sons of Josiah were these: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum
    16: From Jehoiakim was born Jeconiah and Zedekiah
    17: The sons of Jeconiah the captive were: Shealtiel
    18: Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, and Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah
    19: From Pedaiah, there rose up Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel conceived Meshullam, Hananiah, and their sister Shelomith
    20: as well as Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed, five
    21: Now the son of Hananiah was Pelatiah, the father of Jeshaiah, whose son was Rephaiah. And his son was Arnan, from whom was born Obadiah, whose son was Shecaniah
    22: The son of Shecaniah was Shemaiah, whose sons were these: Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six in number
    23: The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiaj, and Azrikam, three
    24: The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven

  Chapter 4.

    1: The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal
    2: Truly, Reaiah, the son of Shobal, conceived Jahath; from him were born Ahumai and Lahad. These are the kindred of the Zorathites
    3: And this is the stock of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash. And the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi
    4: Now Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratha, the father of Bethlehem
    5: Truly, for Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, there were two wives: Helah and Naarah
    6: And Naarah bore to him: Ahuzzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These are the sons of Naarah
    7: And the sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan
    8: Now Koz conceived Anub, and Zobebah, and the kindred of Aharhel, the son of Harum
    9: But Jabez was renown, more so than his brothers, and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, “For I bore him in sorrow.
    10: Truly, Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, “If only, when blessing, you will bless me, and will broaden my borders, and your hand will be with me, and you will cause me not to be oppressed by evil.” And God granted to him the things for which he prayed
    11: Now Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, conceived Mehir, who was the father of Eshton
    12: Then Eshton conceived Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of the city of Nahash. These are the men of Recah
    13: Now the sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel were Hathath and Meonothai
    14: Meonothai conceived Ophrah, but Seraiah conceived Joab, the father of the Valley of Artisans. For indeed, there were artisans there
    15: Truly, the sons of Chelub, the son of Jephunneh, were Iru, and Elah, and Naam. And the sons of Elah: Kenaz
    16: Also, the sons of Jehallelel: Ziph and Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel
    17: And the sons of Ezrah: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon; and he conceived Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa
    18: And then his wife, Judaia, bore Jered, the father of Gedor, and Heber, the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel, the father of Zanoah. Now there were sons of Bithiah, the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married
    19: and sons of his wife Hodiah, the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and of Eshtemoa, who was from Maacathi
    20: And the sons of Shimon: Amnon, and Rinnah, son of Hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Benzoheth
    21: The sons of Shelah, the son of Judah: Er, the father of Lecah, and Laadah, the father of Mareshah, and the kindred of the house of the workers of fine linen in the house of the oath
    22: and he who caused the sun to stand still, and the men of Lying, and Secure, and Burning, who were leaders in Moab, and who returned into Lehem. Now these words are ancient
    23: These are the potters living in the Plantations and in the Hedges, with a king in his works, and they were dwelling there
    24: The sons of Simeon: Nemuel and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul
    25: Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son
    26: The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son
    27: The sons of Shimei were sixteen, and there were six daughters. But his brothers did not have many sons, and the entire kindred was not equal to the sum of the sons of Judah
    28: Now they lived in Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual
    29: and in Bilhah, and in Ezem, and in Tolad
    30: and in Bethuel, and in Hormah, and in Ziklag
    31: and in Beth-marcaboth, and in Hazarsusim, and in Bethbiri, and in Shaaraim. These were their cities until king David
    32: And their towns were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities
    33: with all their villages, on every side of these cities, as far as Baal. This is their habitation and the distribution of the settlements
    34: And there were Meshobab and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah
    35: and Joel, and Jehu, the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel
    36: and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah
    37: as well as Ziza, the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah
    38: These were the names of the leaders in their kindred. And they were multiplied greatly within the houses of their marriages
    39: And they set out, so that they might enter into Gedor, as far as the eastern valley, and so that they might seek pastures for their flocks
    40: And they found fat and very good pastures, and a very wide and quiet and fruitful land, in which some from the stock of Ham had lived before
    41: So then, those whose names have been written above, went forth in the days of Hezekiah, the king of Judah. And they struck down the inhabitants who had been found there with their dwellings. And they wiped them out, even to the present day. And they lived in place of them, because they found very fat pastures there
    42: Also, some of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went away to mount Seir, having as leaders Pelatiah and Neariah and Rephaiah and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi
    43: And they struck down the remnant of the Amalekites, those who had been able to escape, and they lived there in place of them, even to this day

End of day 89.