Day 277:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And it happened that, when the surrounding nations heard that the altar and the sanctuary had been rebuilt as before, they were very angry
    2: And they intended to destroy the people of Jacob that were among them, and they began to kill some of the people, and to persecute them
    3: Then Judas defeated in warfare the sons of Esau in Idumea, and those who were in Akrabattene, because they besieged the Israelites, and he struck them with a great scourging
    4: And he remembered the malice of the sons of Baean, who were a snare and a scandal to the people, lying in ambush for them in the way
    5: And they were trapped by him in the towers, and he took up a position near them, and he anathematized them, and he burned their towers with fire, along with all who were in them
    6: Then he crossed over to the sons of Ammon, and he found a strong hand, and an abundant people, and Timothy was their commander
    7: And he engaged in many battles with them, and they were crushed in their sight, and he struck them down
    8: And he seized the city of Jazer, and her sister cities, and he returned to Judea
    9: And the Gentiles, who were in Gilead, gathered together against the Israelites, who were within their borders, to take them away, and so they fled into the fortress of Dathema
    10: And they sent letters to Judas and his brothers, saying: “The Gentiles all around have been gathering together against us to carry us away
    11: And they are preparing to come and occupy the fortress into which we have fled. And Timothy is the commander of their army
    12: Now, therefore, come and rescue us from their hands, for many of us have fallen
    13: And all our brothers, who were in the places of Tob, have been put to death. And they have led away as captives their wives, and their children, and their spoils. And they have slain nearly a thousand men in that place.
    14: And while they were still reading these letters, behold, there arrived from Galilee other messengers, with torn garments, who announced according to these words
    15: saying that those of Ptolemais and Tyre and Sidon have assembled against them, “and all of Galilee has been filled with foreigners, in order to consume us.
    16: So then, when Judas and the people heard these words, a great assembly came together, to consider what they should do for their brothers who were in trouble and were being assailed by them
    17: And Judas said to Simon his brother: “Choose men for yourself, and go, and free your brothers in Galilee. But I and my brother Jonathan, will go into the country of Gilead.
    18: And he left behind Joseph, son of Zachariah, and Azariah, as commanders of the people, with the remainder of the army, in Judea, to guard it
    19: And he instructed them, saying, “Take charge of this people, but do not go to war against the Gentiles, until we return.
    20: Now three thousand men were divided to Simon, to go into Galilee, but eight thousand were divided to Judas, to go into the land of Gilead
    21: And Simon went into Galilee, and he engaged in many battles with the Gentiles, and the Gentiles were crushed before his face, and he pursued them even to the gates of Ptolemais
    22: And there fell of the Gentiles nearly three thousand men, and he took their spoils
    23: And he took with him those who were in Galilee and in Arbatta, with their wives and children, and all that was theirs, and he led them into Judea with great rejoicing
    24: And Judas Maccabeus, and Jonathan his brother, crossed over the Jordan, and they traveled three days’ journey through the desert
    25: And the Nabateans met them, and they accepted them peacefully, and they described to them all that had happened to their brothers in the land of Gilead
    26: and that many of them were trapped in Bozrah, and Bosor, and Alema, and in Chaspho, and Maked, and Carnaim. All these are large and fortified cities
    27: Moreover, they were held in their grasp in the other cities of Gilead, and they had arranged to move their army, on the next day, to these cities, and to seize them, and to destroy them all in one day
    28: Then Judas and his army unexpectedly turned their path into the desert, to Bosor, and they occupied the city. And he killed every male by the edge of the sword, and took all their spoils, and burned it with fire
    29: And they arose from there by night, and they went forth all the way to the fortress
    30: And it happened that, at first light, when they lifted up their eyes, behold, there was a multitude of people, which could not be numbered, bringing ladders and machines, in order to seize the fortress, and to assault them
    31: And Judas saw that the fight had begun, and the cry of the battle went up to heaven like a trumpet, and a great cry went out of the city
    32: And he said to his army, “Fight today on behalf of your brothers.
    33: And he came, with three companies behind them, and they sounded the trumpets, and they cried out in prayer
    34: And the camp of Timothy knew that it was Maccabeus, and they took flight before his face. And they struck them with a great scourging. And there fell from them in that day nearly eight thousand men
    35: And Judas diverted to Mizpah, and he fought and seized it. And he killed all of its males, and he took its spoils, and he burned it with fire
    36: From there, he continued on, and he seized Chaspho, and Maked, and Bosor, and the rest of the cities of Gilead
    37: But after these events, Timothy gathered together another army, and he positioned his camp opposite Raphon, across the torrent
    38: And Judas sent men to catch sight of the army. And they reported back to him, saying: “All the nations that surround us have assembled before him, with an exceedingly great army
    39: And they have brought the Arabians as auxiliaries to them, and they have set up camp across the torrent, in preparation to come against you in battle.” And Judas went to meet them
    40: And Timothy said to the leaders of his army: “When Judas and his army approach, close to the torrent of water, if he crosses over to us first, we will not be able to withstand him. For he will be able to prevail against us
    41: If, truly, he is afraid to cross over, and so he sets up camp across the river, we will cross over to them, and we will prevail against him.
    42: But when Judas approached, close to the torrent of water, he stationed the scribes of the people near the torrent, and he commanded them, saying, “Permit no man to stay behind, but let all come into the battle.
    43: And he crossed over to them first, and all the people after him. And all the Gentiles were crushed before their face, and they threw away their weapons, and they fled to the temple that was in Carnaim
    44: And he occupied that city, and he burned the temple with fire, along with all the things that were in it. And Carnaim was subdued, and it could not stand against the face of Judas
    45: And Judas gathered together all the Israelites who were in the land of Gilead, from the least even to the greatest, with their wives and children, and a very great army, to come into the land of Judah
    46: And they came as far as Ephron. And this was a great city, positioned at the entrance, strongly fortified, and there was no way to go around it on the right or on the left, but the path was through the midst of it
    47: And those who were in the city shut themselves in and barricaded the gates with stones. And so Judas sent to them with words of peace
    48: saying, “Let us cross through your land, to go into our own land, and no one will harm you; we will only cross through on foot.” But they were not willing to open to them
    49: Then Judas instructed a proclamation to be made in the camp, that they would engage them, each one from the place where he was
    50: And the men of the army drew close. And he assaulted that city all day and all night. And the city was delivered into his hand
    51: And they destroyed every male with the edge of the sword, and he eradicated the city, and he took its spoils, and he crossed through the entire city, over those who had been slain
    52: Then they crossed over the Jordan to the great plain that is opposite the face of Bethshan
    53: And Judas was gathering the stragglers and exhorting the people, throughout the entire way, until they came into the land of Judah
    54: And they ascended to mount Zion with joy and gladness, and they offered holocausts, because not one of them had fallen, until they had returned in peace
    55: Now in the days that Judas and Jonathan were in the land of Gilead, and Simon his brother was in Galilee against the face of Ptolemais
    56: Joseph, the son of Zachariah, and Azariah, the leader of the army, heard good things about the battles that were fought
    57: And he said, “Let us also make a name for ourselves, and let us go to fight against the Gentiles that are all around us.
    58: And he gave orders to those who were in his army, and they went out towards Jamnia
    59: And Gorgias and his men exited the city, to meet them in the fight
    60: And Joseph and Azariah were forced to flee, even to the borders of Judea. And there fell on that day, from the people of Israel, up to two thousand men, and it was a great defeat for the people
    61: For they did not listen to Judas and his brothers, supposing that they should act boldly
    62: But these were not of the offspring of those men by whom salvation was brought to Israel
    63: And the men of Judah were magnified greatly in the sight of all Israel and of all the nations where their name was heard
    64: And the people gathered to them with favorable acclamations
    65: And so Judas and his brothers went out and assailed the sons of Esau, in the land that is toward the south, and he struck Hebron and her sister cities, and he burned its walls and the towers all around it with fire
    66: And he moved his camp to go into the land of the foreigners, and he traveled through Samaria
    67: In that day, some priests fell in battle. Since they desired to act boldly, they went out, without counsel, into the battle
    68: And Judas turned aside to Azotus, into the land of the foreigners, and he destroyed their altars, and he burned the statues of their gods with fire. And he seized the spoils of the cities, and he returned to the land of Judah

  Chapter 6.

    1: And king Antiochus was traveling through the upper regions, and he heard that the city of Elymais in Persia was very noble and abundant in silver and gold
    2: and that the temple in it was very opulent, and that there were, in that place, coverings of gold, and breastplates and shields, which Alexander, the son of Philip, king of Macedonia, who reigned first in Greece, had left behind
    3: So he came and sought to seize the city and to pillage it. And he was not able, because this plan became known to those who were in the city
    4: And they rose up in battle, and he fled away from there, and he departed with great sadness, and he returned into Babylon
    5: And someone arrived to report to him in Persia, that those who were in the land of Judah were forced to flee the camp
    6: and that Lysias went forth with a particularly strong army, and he was forced to flee before the face of the Jews, and that they were strengthened by the weapons, and resources, and many spoils which they seized from the camps they demolished
    7: and that they had destroyed the abomination, which he had established on the altar that was in Jerusalem, and that the sanctuary, just as before, had been encircled with high walls, along with Bethzur, his city
    8: And it happened that, when the king heard these words, he was terrified and very moved. And he fell down on his bed, and he fell into feebleness out of grief. For it had not happened to him as he had intended
    9: And he was in that place through many days. For a great grief was renewed in him, and he concluded that he would die
    10: And he called all his friends, and he said to them: “Sleep has withdrawn from my eyes, and I am declining, and my heart has collapsed out of anxiety
    11: And I said in my heart: How much trouble has come to me, and what floods of sorrow there are, where I am now! I used to be cheerful and beloved in my power
    12: Truly, now, I remember the evils that I did in Jerusalem, from which place I also took away all the spoils of gold and silver that were in it, and I sent to carry away the inhabitants of Judah without cause
    13: Therefore, I know that it is because of this that these evils have found me. And behold, I perish with great sorrow in a foreign land.
    14: Then he called Philip, one of his friends, and he placed him first over all his kingdom
    15: And he gave him the diadem, and his robe, and his ring, so that he would guide Antiochus, his son, and raise him, and so that he would reign
    16: And king Antiochus died there, in the one hundred and forty-ninth year
    17: And Lysias knew that the king was dead, and he appointed Antiochus, his son, to reign, whom he had raised from adolescence. And he called his name Eupator
    18: And those who were in the stronghold had enclosed the Israelites by surrounding the holy places. And they continually sought to do evil to them and to support the Gentiles
    19: And Judas intended to disperse them. And he called together all the people, in order to besiege them
    20: And they came together and besieged them in the one hundred and fiftieth year, and they made catapults and other machines
    21: And certain ones of these, who were besieged, escaped. And some of the impious out of Israel joined themselves to them
    22: And they went to the king, and they said: “How long will you not act with judgment and vindicate our brothers
    23: We resolved to serve your father, and to walk according to his precepts, and to obey his edicts
    24: And because of this, the sons of our people have alienated themselves from us, and they have put to death as many of us as they could find, and they have torn apart our inheritances
    25: And they have not extended their hand against us only, but also against all within our borders
    26: And behold, this day they have taken a position near the stronghold of Jerusalem to occupy it, and they have fortified the stronghold of Bethzur
    27: And, unless you quickly act to prevent them, they will do greater things than these, and you will not be able to subdue them.
    28: And the king was angry when he heard this. And he called together all his friends, and the leaders of his army, and those who were over the horsemen
    29: But there even came to him mercenary armies from other kingdoms and from the islands of the sea
    30: And the number of his army was one hundred thousand footmen, and twenty thousand horsemen, and thirty-two elephants trained for battle
    31: And they traveled through Idumea, and they took a position near Bethzur. And they fought for many days, and they made machines of war. But they came out and burnt them with fire, and they fought manfully
    32: And Judas departed from the stronghold, and he moved the camp to Bethzechariah, opposite the camp of the king
    33: And the king rose up, before it was light, and he forced his troops to march toward the way of Bethzechariah. And the armies prepared themselves for battle, and they sounded the trumpets
    34: And they showed the elephants the blood of grapes and mulberries, to provoke them to fight
    35: And they divided the beasts by the legions, and there stood by every elephant a thousand men, with shields joined together and with brass helmets on their heads. And five hundred well-ordered horsemen were chosen for every beast
    36: These were ready beforehand, and wherever the beast was, they were there; and whenever it moved, they moved, and they did not depart from it
    37: Moreover, upon them there were strong wooden turrets, watching over every beast, with machines upon them, and on them were thirty-two valiant men, who fought from above, and an Indian to rule each beast
    38: And the rest of the horsemen, he stationed here and there, in two parts, with trumpets to stir up the army and to urge on those who were slow to move within its legions
    39: And so, when the sun reflected off the shields of gold and of brass, the mountains were resplendent from them, and they glowed like lamps of fire
    40: And part of the king’s army was divided to the high mountains, and the other part to the low places. And they went forth with order and caution
    41: And all the inhabitants of the land were shaken at the voice of their multitude, and at the advance of the company, and at the clash of the armor. For the army was very great and strong
    42: And Judas and his army drew near for battle. And there fell of the king’s army six hundred men
    43: And Eleazar, the son of Saura, saw one of the beasts shielded with the king’s shield, and it was higher than the other beasts. So it seemed to him that the king must be on it
    44: And he gave himself for the freedom of his people, and to obtain for himself a name in eternity
    45: And he ran up to it boldly in the midst of the legion, killing on the right  and on the left, and they fell down before him on this side and that
    46: And he went between the feet of the elephant, and put himself under it, and he killed it. And it fell to the ground upon him, and he died there
    47: And, seeing the strength of the king and the forcefulness of his army, they turned themselves away from them
    48: But the king’s camp went up against them in Jerusalem. And the king’s camp took up a position near Judea and Mount Zion
    49: And he made peace with those who were in Bethzur. And they went out of the city, because they had no provisions in their confinement, for it was the Sabbath of the land
    50: And the king captured Bethzur, and he stationed a garrison there to keep it
    51: And he turned his camp against the place of sanctification for many days. And he stationed there catapults and other machines: machines to cast fire, and windlasses to cast stones and darts, and small catapults to cast arrows and metal
    52: But they also made machines against their machines, and they fought for many days
    53: But there were no foods in the city, because it was the seventh year. And those who had remained in Judea were from the Gentiles, so they consumed all that they had left from what had been stored up
    54: And there remained in the holy places a few men, for the famine had prevailed over them. And they were scattered, each one to his own place
    55: Then Lysias heard that Philip, whom king Antiochus had appointed, when he was still alive, to raise his son, Antiochus, and to reign
    56: had returned from Persia and Media, with the army that went with him, and that he sought to take upon himself the affairs of the kingdom
    57: He hurried to go and to say to the king and the commanders of the army: “We are weakened everyday, and our food is limited, and the place that we besiege is strong, and it is incumbent upon us to put the kingdom in order
    58: And so now, let us bestow a pledge to these men, and make peace with them and with all their nation
    59: And let us establish for them that they may walk according to their own laws, just as before. For, because of their laws, which we despised, they have become angry and have done all these things.
    60: And the idea was pleasing in the sight of the king and the leaders. And he sent to them to make peace. And they accepted it
    61: And the king and the leaders swore to them. And they went out of the stronghold
    62: Then the king entered into Mount Zion, and saw the fortifications of the place, and so he abruptly broke the oath that he had sworn, and he commanded the surrounding wall to be destroyed
    63: And he departed in haste and returned to Antioch, where he found Philip ruling the city. And he fought against him and occupied the city

  Chapter 7.

    1: In the one hundred and fifty-first year, Demetrius, the son of Seleucus, departed from the city of Rome, and he went up with a few men to a maritime city, and he reigned there
    2: And it happened that, as he entered into the house of the kingdom of his fathers, the army captured Antiochus and Lysias, to bring them to him
    3: And the matter became known to him, and he said, “Do not show me their face.
    4: And so the army killed them. And Demetrius sat upon the throne of his kingdom
    5: And there came to him iniquitous and impious men from Israel. And Alcimus was their leader, who wanted to be made a priest
    6: And they accused the people to the king, saying: “Judas and his brothers have destroyed all your friends, and he has scattered us from our land
    7: Now, therefore, send a man, whom you trust, and let him go and see all the destruction he has done to us and to the regions of the king. And let him punish all his friends and their helpers.
    8: And so the king chose, from among his friends, Bacchides, who ruled across the great river in the kingdom, and who was faithful to the king. And he sent hi
    9: to see the destruction that Judas had done. Moreover, he appointed the wicked Alcimus to the priesthood, and he commanded him to take revenge on the sons of Israel
    10: And they rose up and came forth with a great army into the land of Judah. And they sent messengers, who spoke to Judas and his brothers with words of peace, in deceitfulness
    11: But they did not heed their words, for they saw that they arrived with a great army
    12: Then there assembled to Alcimus and Bacchides, a congregation of scribes, to seek just terms
    13: And first, the Hasideans, who were among the sons of Israel, also sought peace from them
    14: For they said, “A man who is a priest from the offspring of Aaron has arrived; he will not deceive us.
    15: And he spoke to them peaceful words, and he swore to them, saying, “We will not carry out any evil against you or your friends.
    16: And they believed him. And he captured sixty of their men and killed them in one day, according to the word that is written
    17: The flesh of your saints, and their blood, they have poured out all around Jerusalem, and there was no one who would bury them
    18: Then fear and trembling hovered over all the people. For they said: “There is no truth or judgment among them. For they have transgressed the agreement and the oath that they swore.
    19: And Bacchides moved the camp from Jerusalem, and he took up a position at Bethzaith. And he sent and captured many of those who had fled from him, and some of the people he killed in sacrifice, and he threw them into a great pit
    20: Then he committed the country to Alcimus, and he left behind troops with him to assist him. And so Bacchides went away to the king
    21: And Alcimus did what he pleased by means of his leadership of the priesthood
    22: And all those who disturbed the people assembled before him, and they obtained the land of Judah, and they caused a great scourging in Israel
    23: And Judas saw all the evils that Alcimus, and those who were with him, did to the sons of Israel, even more than the Gentiles did
    24: And he went out into all the parts surrounding Judea, and he took vengeance on the men who had rebelled, and they ceased to go forth into the region any longer
    25: But Alcimus saw that Judas, and those who were with him, prevailed. And he knew that he was not able to withstand them. And so he returned to the king, and he accused them of many crimes
    26: And the king sent Nicanor, one of his principal noblemen, who was a cultivator of hostility against Israel. And he commanded him to overthrow the people
    27: And Nicanor came to Jerusalem with a great army, and he sent to Judas and his brothers words of peace, with deceitfulness
    28: saying: “Let there be no fighting between me and you. I will come with a few men, to see your faces with peace.
    29: And he came to Judas, and they greeted one another in turns, peaceably. And the enemies were prepared to abduct Judas
    30: And the plan became known to Judas, that he came to him with deceit. And so he became very afraid of him, and he was no longer willing to see his face
    31: And Nicanor knew that his plan had been exposed, and he went out to meet Judas in battle near Capharsalama
    32: And there fell of the army of Nicanor nearly five thousand men, and they fled into the city of David
    33: And after these events, Nicanor ascended to mount Zion. And some of the priests of the people went out to greet him in peace, and to show him the holocausts that were offered for the king
    34: But he mocked and despised them, and he defiled them. And he spoke arrogantly
    35: and he swore with anger, saying, “Unless Judas and his army have been delivered into my hands, when I return in peace, I will burn this house.” And he went out with great anger
    36: And the priests went in and stood before the face of the altar and the temple. And weeping, they said
    37: “You, O Lord, have chosen this house so that your name may be invoked in it, so that it may be a house of prayer and supplication for your people
    38: Accomplish vindication with this man and his army, and let them fall by the sword. Remember their blasphemies, and do not allow them to continue.
    39: Then Nicanor departed from Jerusalem, and he positioned his camp near Bethhoron, and an army of Syria met him there
    40: And Judas took a position in Adasa with three thousand men. And Judas prayed, and he said
    41: “O Lord, when those who were sent by king Sennacherib blasphemed against you, an angel went out and struck one hundred and eighty-five thousand of them
    42: Just so, crush this army in our sight today, and so let the others know that he has spoken evil against your sanctuary. And judge him according to his wickedness.
    43: And the armies were sent into battle together on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar. And the camp of Nicanor was crushed, and he himself was among the first slain in the battle
    44: So then, when his army saw that Nicanor had fallen, they threw away their weapons and fled
    45: And they pursued them for one day’s journey from Adasa, even until one comes into Gazara, and they sounded the trumpets after them with signals
    46: And they went forth from all of the towns all around Judea. And they herded them with the horns, and they turned back again to them, and they were all felled with the sword, and there was not so much as one of them left behind
    47: And they took their spoils like a prey, and they cut off the head of Nicanor, and his right hand, which he had extended arrogantly, and they brought it, and hung it up opposite Jerusalem
    48: And the people rejoiced exceedingly, and they spent that day in great joy
    49: And he established that this day should be kept every year, on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar
    50: And the land of Judah was quieted for a brief time

  Chapter 8.

    1: And Judas heard of the fame of the Romans, that they are powerful and strong, and that they willingly agree to all things that are asked of them; and that, whoever was agreeable to them, they established a friendship with them, and so they are powerful and resourceful
    2: And they heard of their battles, and the successful works that they had accomplished in Galatia, how they had subdued them and brought them under tribute
    3: and what great things they had accomplished in the region of Spain, and that they had driven under their power the mines of silver and gold which are there, and that they had obtained possession of the entire place by their counsel and patience
    4: and that they had overcome places that were very far from them, and kings, who came against them from the ends of the earth, and had crushed them and struck them with a great scourging, while the rest pay tribute to them every year
    5: and that they had defeated in battle Philip, and Perses the king of the Ceteans, and the others who had taken up arms against them, and had crushed them in warfare and subdued them
    6: and how Antiochus, the great king of Asia, who brought a fight against them, having one hundred and twenty elephants, with horsemen, and swift chariots, and a very great army, was crushed by them
    7: and how they had captured him alive and had decreed to him that both he and those who would reign after him would pay a great tribute, and that he should provide hostages bound to an agreement
    8: and that regions from the Indians, and from the Medes, and from the Lydians, from among their best regions, with those whom they had taken from them, they gave to king Eumenes
    9: And those who were in Greece wanted to go out and defeat them, but they became aware of this plan
    10: And so they sent one general to them, and he fought against them, and many of them fell, and they led into captivity their wives, and their sons, and they despoiled them and took possession of their land, and they destroyed their walls and drove them into servitude, even to this day
    11: And the remaining kingdoms and islands, which at any time had resisted them, they destroyed and drove under their power
    12: But with their friends, and with those who remained at peace with them, they maintained friendship and conquered kingdoms: those that were near, and those that were far off. For all those who heard of their name were afraid of them
    13: In fact, whomever they wanted to help become ruler, these reigned, but whomever they wanted, they deposed from the kingdom. And they were greatly exalted
    14: And of all these, none wore a diadem or was clothed in purple, to be magnified in this
    15: And also, they had made themselves a senate house, and they consulted daily with three hundred and twenty men, continually acting as a counsel for the multitude, so that they would do the things that were right
    16: And they commit their government to one man each year, to rule over their entire land, and they all obey this one, and there is no envy or jealousy among them
    17: And so Judas chose Eupolemus, the son of John, the son of Jacob, and Jason, the son of Eleazar, and he sent them to Rome to make an agreement of friendship and an alliance with them
    18: and so that they would take away from them the yoke of the Grecians, for they saw that they oppressed the kingdom of Israel with servitude
    19: And they went to Rome, a very long journey, and they entered the senate house, and they said
    20: “Judas Maccabeus, and his brothers, and the people of the Jews, have sent us to you to establish with you an alliance and peace, and so that we may be registered among your associates and friends.
    21: And the word was pleasing in their sight
    22: And this is a copy of the writing, which they rewrote on tablets of brass and sent to Jerusalem, so that it would be with them in that place as a memorial of the peace and alliance
    23: “May all be well with the Romans and with the nation of the Jews, at sea and on land, forever, and may sword and enemy be far away from them
    24: But if a war is instituted against the Romans first, or against any of their allies in all their dominions
    25: the nation of the Jews will bring help to them, just as the situation shall direct, whole-heartedly
    26: And those who do battle, they need not provide with supplies of wheat, or arms, or money, or ships, just as it seems good to the Romans, and they shall obey their orders, while taking nothing from them
    27: But in like manner also, if war will have fallen upon the nation of the Jews first, the Romans shall help them willingly, just as the situation permits them
    28: And those who give assistance will not be provided with wheat, or arms, or money, or ships, just as it seems good to the Romans. And they shall obey their orders without deceit
    29: According to these words, the Romans have made an agreement with the people of the Jews
    30: And, if after these words, one or another would want to add anything to, or take anything from these, they may do as they propose. And whatever they add or take away, it shall be ratified
    31: Moreover, concerning the evils that king Demetrius did to them, we have written to him, saying, ‘Why have you made your yoke heavy upon our friends and allies, the Jews
    32: If, therefore, they come again to us against you, we will render judgment for them, and we will make war against you by sea and by land.’ 

End of day 277.