Day 354:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to him, in order to make known to his servants the things that must soon occur, and which he signified by sending his Angel to his servant John
    2: he has offered testimony to the Word of God, and whatever he saw is the testimony of Jesus Christ
    3: Blessed is he who reads or hears the words of this Prophecy, and who keeps the things that have been written in it. For the time is near
    4: John, to the seven Churches, which are in Asia. Grace and peace to you, from him who is, and who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are in the sight of his throne
    5: and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the first-born of the dead, and the leader over the kings of the earth, who has loved us and has washed us from our sins with his blood
    6: and who has made us into a kingdom and into priests for God and for his Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen
    7: Behold, he arrives with the clouds, and every eye shall see him, even those who pierced him. And all the tribes of the earth shall lament for themselves over him. Even so. Amen
    8: “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End,” says the Lord God, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty
    9: I, John, your brother, and a sharer in the tribulation and in the kingdom and in patient endurance for Christ Jesus, was on the island which is called Patmos, because of the Word of God and the testimony to Jesus
    10: I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a great voice, like that of a trumpet
    11: saying, “What you see, write in a book, and send it to the seven Churches, which are in Asia: to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamus, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.
    12: And I turned around, so as to see the voice which was speaking with me. And having turned around, I saw seven golden lampstands
    13: And in the midst of the seven golden lampstands was one resembling the Son of man, clothed to the feet with a vestment, and wrapped to the breast with a wide belt of gold
    14: But his head and hair were bright, like white wool, or like snow; and his eyes were like a flame of fire
    15: and his feet resembled shining brass, just as in a burning furnace; and his voice was like the voice of many waters
    16: And in his right hand, he held the seven stars; and from his mouth went out a sharp two-edged sword; and his face was like the sun, shining with all its might
    17: And when I had seen him, I fell at his feet, like one who is dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying: “Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last
    18: And I am alive, though I was dead. And, behold, I live forever and ever. And I hold the keys of death and of Hell
    19: Therefore, write the things which you have seen, and which are, and which must occur afterward
    20: the mystery of the seven stars, which you have seen in my right hand, and of the seven golden lampstands. The seven stars are the Angels of the seven Churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven Churches.

  Chapter 2.

    1: “And to the Angel of the Church of Ephesus write: Thus says the One who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks in the midst of the seven golden lampstands
    2: I know your works, and your hardship and patient endurance, and that you cannot stand those who are evil. And so, you have tested those who declare themselves to be Apostles and are not, and you have found them to be liars
    3: And you have patient endurance for the sake of my name, and you have not fallen away
    4: But I have this against you: that you have relinquished your first charity
    5: And so, call to mind the place from which you have fallen, and do penance, and do the first works. Otherwise, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent
    6: But this you have, that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate
    7: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches. To him who prevails, I will give to eat from the Tree of Life, which is in the Paradise of my God
    8: And to the Angel of the Church of Smyrna write: Thus says the First and the Last, he who was dead and now lives
    9: I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich, and that you are blasphemed by those who declare themselves to be Jews and are not, but who are a synagogue of Satan
    10: You should fear nothing amid those things which you will suffer. Behold, the devil will cast some of you into prison, so that you may be tested. And you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful even unto death, and I will give to you the crown of life
    11: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches. Whoever will prevail, he shall not be harmed by the second death
    12: And to the Angel of the Church of Pergamus write: Thus says he who holds the sharp two-edged spear
    13: I know where you dwell, where the seat of Satan is, and that you hold to my name and have not denied my faith, even in those days when Antipas was my faithful witness, who was slain among you, where Satan dwells
    14: But I have a few things against you. For you have, in that place, those who hold to the doctrine of Balaam, who instructed Balak to cast a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat and to commit fornication
    15: And you also have those who hold to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans
    16: So do penance to the same extent. If you do less, I will come to you quickly and I will fight against these ones with the sword of my mouth
    17: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches. To him who prevails, I will give the hidden manna. And I will give to him a white emblem, and on the emblem, a new name has been written, which no one knows, except the one who receives it
    18: And to the Angel of the Church of Thyatira write: Thus says the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like shining brass
    19: I know your works, and your faith and charity, and your ministry and patient endurance, and that your more recent works are greater than the earlier ones
    20: But I have a few things against you. For you permit the woman Jezabel, who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants, to commit fornication and to eat the food of idolatry
    21: And I gave her a time, so that she might do penance, but she is not willing to repent from her fornication
    22: Behold, I will cast her onto a bed, and those who commit adultery with her shall be in a very great tribulation, unless they repent from their works
    23: And I will put her sons to death, and all the Churches shall know that I am the one who examines temperaments and hearts. And I will give to each one of you according to your works. But I say to you,
    24: and to the others who are at Thyatira: Whoever does not hold to this doctrine, and who has not ‘known the depths of Satan,’ as they say, I will not set any other weight upon you
    25: Even so, that which you have, hold on to it until I return
    26: And whoever will prevail and will observe my works even unto the end, I will give to him authority over the nations
    27: And he shall rule them with an iron rod, and they shall be broken like the earthenware of a potter
    28: The same I also have received from my Father. And I will give to him the morning star
    29: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches.

  Chapter 3.

    1: “And to the Angel of the Church of Sardis write: Thus says he who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name which is alive, but you are dead
    2: Be vigilant, and confirm the things that remain, lest they soon die out. For I do not find your works to be full in the sight of my God
    3: Therefore, keep in mind the way that you have received and heard, and then observe it and repent. But if you will not be vigilant, I will come to you like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come to you
    4: But you have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments. And these shall walk with me in white, because they are worthy
    5: Whoever prevails, so shall he be clothed in white vestments. And I will not delete his name from the Book of Life. And I will confess his name in the presence of my Father and in the presence of his Angels
    6: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches
    7: And to the Angel of the Church of Philadelphia write: Thus says the Holy One, the True One, he who holds the key of David. He opens and no one closes. He closes and no one opens
    8: I know your works. Behold, I have set an open door before you, which no one is able to close. For you have little power, and you have observed my word, and you have not denied my name
    9: Behold, I will take from the synagogue of Satan those who declare themselves to be Jews and are not, for they are lying. Behold, I will cause them to approach and to reverence before your feet. And they shall know that I have loved you
    10: Since you have kept the word of my patient endurance, I also will keep you from the hour of temptation, which shall overcome the whole world in order to test those living upon the earth
    11: Behold, I am approaching quickly. Hold on to what you have, so that no one may take your crown
    12: Whoever prevails, I will set him as a column in the temple of my God, and he shall not depart from it anymore. And I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem that descends out of heaven from my God, and my new name
    13: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches
    14: And to the Angel of the Church of Laodicea write: Thus says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, who is the Beginning of the creation of God
    15: I know your works: that you are neither cold, nor hot. I wish that you were either cold or hot
    16: But because you are lukewarm and are neither cold nor hot, I will begin to vomit you out of my mouth
    17: For you declare, ‘I am wealthy, and I have been enriched further, and I have need of nothing.’ And you do not know that you are wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked
    18: I urge you to buy from me gold, tested by fire, so that you may be enriched and may be clothed in white vestments, and so that the shame of your nakedness may disappear. And anoint your eyes with an eye salve, so that you may see
    19: Those whom I love, I rebuke and chastise. Therefore, be zealous and do penance
    20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone will hear my voice and will open the door to me, I will enter to him, and I will dine with him, and he with me
    21: Whoever prevails, I will grant to him to sit with me on my throne, just as I also have overcome and have sat down with my Father on his throne
    22: Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches.

  Chapter 4.

    1: After these things, I saw, and behold, a door was opened in heaven, and the voice that I heard speaking with me first was like a trumpet, saying: “Ascend to here, and I will reveal to you what must occur after these things.
    2: And immediately I was in the Spirit. And behold, a throne had been placed in heaven, and there was One sitting upon the throne
    3: And the One who was sitting there was similar in appearance to a stone of jasper and sardius. And there was an iridescence surrounding the throne, in aspect similar to an emerald
    4: And surrounding the throne were twenty-four smaller thrones. And upon the thrones, twenty-four elders were sitting, clothed entirely in white vestments, and on their heads were gold crowns
    5: And from the throne, lightnings and voices and thunders went forth. And there were seven burning lamps before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God
    6: And in view of the throne, there was something that seemed like a sea of glass, similar to crystal. And in the middle of the throne, and all around the throne, there were four living creatures, full of eyes in front and in back
    7: And the first living creature resembled a lion, and the second living creature resembled a calf, and the third living creature had a face like a man, and the fourth living creature resembled a flying eagle
    8: And each of the four living creatures had upon them six wings, and all around and within they are full of eyes. And they took no rest, day or night, from saying: “Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was, and who is, and who is to come.
    9: And while those living creatures were giving glory and honor and blessings to the One sitting upon the throne, who lives forever and ever
    10: the twenty-four elders fell prostrate before the One sitting upon the throne, and they adored him who lives forever and ever, and they cast their crowns before the throne, saying
    11: “You are worthy, O Lord our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you have created all things, and they became and were created because of your will.

End of day 354.