Day 253:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahasuerus, of the offspring of the Medes, who ruled over the kingdom of the Chaldeans
    2: in year one of his reign, I, Daniel, understood in the books the number of the years, concerning the word of the Lord which came to Jeremiah, the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would be completed in seventy years
    3: And I set my face to the Lord, my God, to ask and make supplication with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes
    4: And I prayed to the Lord, my God, and I confessed, and I said, “I beg you, O Lord God, great and terrible, preserving the covenant and mercy for those who love you and keep your commandments
    5: We have sinned, we have committed iniquity, we acted impiously and have withdrawn, and we have turned aside from your commandments as well as your judgments
    6: We have not obeyed your servants, the prophets, who have spoken in your name to our kings, our leaders, our fathers, and all the people of the land
    7: To you, O Lord, is justice, but to us is confusion of face, just as it is on this day for the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all Israel, for those who are near and those who are far off, in all the lands to which you have driven them, because of their iniquities by which they have sinned against you
    8: O Lord, to us belongs confusion of face:  to our kings, our leaders, and our fathers, who have sinned
    9: But to you, the Lord our God, is mercy and atonement, for we have withdrawn from you
    10: and we have not listened to the voice of the Lord, our God, so as to walk in his law, which he established for us by his servants, the prophets
    11: And all Israel has transgressed your law and has turned away, not listening to your voice, and so the condemnation and the curse, which is written in the book of Moses, servant of God, has rained down upon us, because we have sinned against him
    12: And he has fulfilled his words, which he has spoken over us and over our leaders who judged us, that he would lead over us a great evil, such as has never before existed under all of heaven, according to what has been done in Jerusalem
    13: Just as it has been written in the law of Moses, all this evil has come upon us, and we did not entreat your face, O Lord our God, so that we might turn back from our iniquities and consider your truth
    14: And the Lord kept watch over the evil and has led it over us; the Lord, our God, is just in all his works, which he has accomplished, for we have not listened to his voice
    15: And now, O Lord, our God, who has led your people out of the land of Egypt with a strong hand and has made yourself a name in accordance with this day:  we have sinned, we have done wrong
    16: O Lord, for all your righteousness, turn away, I beg you, your anger and your fury from your city, Jerusalem, and from your holy mountain. For, because of our sins and the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people are a reproach to all who surround us
    17: Now, therefore, heed, O God, the prayer of your servant and his requests, and reveal your face over your sanctuary, which is desolate, for your own sake
    18: Incline your ear, O my God, and hear, open your eyes and see our desolation and the city over which your name is invoked. For it is not through our justifications that we offer requests before your face, but through the fullness of your compassion
    19: Heed, O Lord. Be pleased, O Lord. Turn and act. Do not delay, for your own sake, O my God, because your name is invoked over your city and over your people.
    20: And while I was still speaking and praying and confessing my sins, and the sins of my people, Israel, and offering my prayers in the sight of my God, on behalf of the holy mountain of my God
    21: as I was still speaking in prayer, behold, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, flying swiftly, touched me at the time of the evening sacrifice
    22: And he instructed me, and he spoke to me and said, “Now, Daniel, I have come forth to teach you and to help you understand
    23: At the beginning of your prayers, the message came forth, yet I have come to explain it to you because you are a man who is seeking. Therefore, you must pay close attention to the message and understand the vision
    24: Seventy weeks of years are concentrated on your people and on your holy city, so that transgression shall be finished, and sin shall reach an end, and iniquity shall be wiped away, and so that everlasting justice shall be brought in, and vision and prophecy shall be fulfilled, and the Saint of saints shall be anointed
    25: Therefore, know and take heed:  from the going forth of the word to build up Jerusalem again, until the Christ leader, there will be seven weeks of years, and sixty-two weeks of years; and the wide path will be built again, and the walls, in a time of anguish
    26: And after sixty-two weeks of years, the Christ leader will be slain. And the people who have denied him will not be his. And the people, when their leader arrives, will destroy the city and the sanctuary. And its end will be devastation, and, after the end of the war, the desolation will be set up
    27: But he will confirm a covenant with many for one week of years; and for half of the week of years, victim and sacrifice will nearly cease; but there will be in the temple the abomination of desolation. And the desolation will continue even to the consummation and the end.

  Chapter 10.

    1: In the third year of Cyrus, king of the Persians, a message was revealed to Daniel, called Belteshazzar, and a true word, and great strength.  And he understood the message, for understanding is needed in a vision
    2: In those days, I, Daniel, mourned for three weeks of days
    3: I ate no desirable bread, and neither meat, nor wine, entered my mouth, neither was I anointed with ointment, until the three weeks of days were completed
    4: But on the twenty-fourth day of the first month, I was next to the great river, which is the Tigris
    5: And I lifted up my eyes, and I saw, and behold, one man clothed in linen, and his waist was wrapped with the finest gold
    6: and his body was like the golden stone, and his face had the appearance of lightning, and his eyes that of a burning lamp, and his arms and all that is downward all the way to the feet had the appearance of glowing brass, and his speaking voice was like the voice of a multitude
    7: But I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see it, but an exceedingly great terror rushed over them, and they fled into hiding
    8: And I, having been left alone, saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me, moreover, my appearance was altered, and I languished, not having any strength
    9: And I heard the voice of his words, and when I heard, I lay down in confusion on my face, and my face was close to the ground
    10: And behold, a hand touched me, and raised me onto my knees and the knuckles of my hands
    11: And he said to me, “Daniel, man of longing, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand yourself upright, for I am now sent to you.” And when he had said these words to me, I stood trembling
    12: And he said to me, “Do not be afraid, Daniel, because from the first day that you set your heart to understand, by afflicting yourself in the sight of your God, your words have been heeded, and I have arrived because of your words
    13: But the leader of the kingdom of the Persians resisted me for twenty-one days, and behold, Michael, one of the primary leaders, came to help me, and I remained there next to the king of the Persians
    14: But I have come to teach you what will happen to your people in the latter days, because the vision is for a long time from now.
    15: And while he was speaking words to me in this way, I cast my face down to the ground and was silent
    16: And behold, something in the likeness of a son of man touched my lips. Then, opening my mouth, I spoke and said to him who stood before me, “My lord, at the sight of you, my limbs became weak and no strength has remained in me
    17: And so, how can the servant of my lord speak with my lord? For no strength remains in me; and even my breathing is hindered.
    18: Therefore, he who looked like a man, touched me again and strengthened me
    19: And he said, “Fear not, O man of longing. May peace be with you. Take courage and be strong.” And when he spoke to me, I recovered, and I said, “Speak, my lord, for you have strengthened me.
    20: And he said, “Do you not know why I have come to you? And next I will return, to fight against the leader of the Persians. When I was leaving, there appeared the leader of the Greeks arriving
    21: But, in truth, I announce to you what is expressed in the scripture of truth. And no one is my helper in all these things, except Michael your leader.

  Chapter 11.

    1: “And so, from the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood firm, so that he might be reinforced and strengthened
    2: And now I will announce to you the truth. Behold, up to a certain point, three kings will stand in Persia, and the fourth will be exceedingly enriched in power above them all. And when he has grown strong by his resources, he will stir up all against the kingdom of Greece
    3: But there will rise up a strong king, and he will rule with great power, and he will do what he pleases
    4: And when he has been firmly established, his kingdom will be shattered and will be divided towards the four winds of the heaven, but not to his posterity, nor according to his power with which he ruled. For his kingdom will be torn to pieces, even for the outsiders who have been expelled from these
    5: And the king of the South will be reinforced, yet one of his leaders will prevail over him, and he will rule with riches, for great is his domain
    6: And after the end of years, they will form a federation, and the daughter of the king of the South will come to the king of the North to make friendship, but she will not obtain the strength of arms, neither will her offspring stand firm, and she will be handed over, along with those who brought her, her young men, and those who comforted her in these times
    7: And a transplant from the germination of her roots will stand up, and he will come with an army, and will enter into the province of the king of the North, and he will abuse them, and will hold it fast
    8: And, in addition, he will carry away captive into Egypt their gods, and their graven images, and likewise their precious vessels of gold and silver. He will prevail against the king of the North
    9: And the king of the South will enter into the kingdom, and will return to his own land
    10: But his sons will be challenged, and they will assemble a multitude of very many forces. And he will arrive rushing and overflowing. And he will be turned back, and he will be enraged, and he will join the battle in his redness
    11: And the king of the South, having being challenged, will go forth and will fight against the king of the North, and he will prepare an exceedingly great multitude, and a multitude will be given into his hand
    12: And he will seize a multitude, and his heart will be exalted, and he will cast down many thousands, but he will not prevail
    13: For the king of the North will change strategy and will prepare a multitude much greater than before, and at the end of times and years, he will rush forward with a great army and exceedingly great resources
    14: And in those times, many will rise up against the king of the South. And likewise the sons of the deceivers among your people will extol themselves, so as to fulfill the vision, and they will collapse
    15: And the king of the North will arrive and will transport siege works, and he will seize the most fortified cities. And the arms of the South will not withstand him, and his elect will rise up to resist, but the strength will not
    16: And when he arrives, he will do just as he pleases, and there will be none who stand against his face. And he will stand in the illustrious land, and it will be consumed by his hand
    17: And he will set his face to strive to hold his entire kingdom, and he will make fair conditions with him. And he will give him a daughter among women, so as to overthrow it. But she will not stand, neither will she be for him
    18: And he will turn his face towards the islands, and he will seize many. And he will cause the leader of his reproach to cease, and his reproach will be turned around for him
    19: And he will turn his face to the empire of his own land, and he will strike, and will overthrow, but he will not succeed
    20: And there will stand up in his place one who is most worthless and unworthy of kingly honor. And in a short time, he will be worn out, but not in fury, nor in battle
    21: And there will stand up in his place the despicable one, and he will not be assigned the honor of a king. And he will arrive in secret, and he will obtain the kingdom by deceitfulness
    22: And the arms of the fighting will be assaulted before his face and will be shattered, and, in addition, the leader of the federation
    23: And, after making friends, he will trick him, and he will go up and will overcome with a small people
    24: And he will enter into rich and resourceful cities, and he will do what his fathers never did, nor his fathers’ fathers. He will scatter their spoils, and their prey, and their riches, and will form a plan against the most steadfast, and this until a time
    25: And his strength and his heart will be enraged against the king of the South with a great army. And the king of the South will be provoked into going to war by having many allies and exceedingly good circumstances, and yet these will not stand, for they will form plans against him
    26: And those who eat bread with him will crush him, and his army will be suppressed, and very many will die, having been executed
    27: And the heart of two kings will be similar, to do harm, and they will speak lies at one table, but they will not succeed, because as yet the end is for another time
    28: And he will return to his land with many resources. And his heart will be against the holy testament, and he will act, and he will return to his own land
    29: At the appointed time, he will return, and he will approach the South, but the latter time will not be like the former
    30: And the Greek warships and the Romans will come upon him, and he will be pierced, and will retreat, and will have scorn against the testament of the sanctuary, and he will act. And he will return and will consult their adversaries, who have forsaken the covenant of the sanctuary
    31: And arms will take his side, and they will pollute the sanctuary of the strength, and they will take away the continual sacrifice and will replace it with the abomination of desolation
    32: And the impious within the testament will imitate deceitfully, but the people, knowing their God, will persevere and will act
    33: And the teachers among the people will teach many, but they will be ruined by the sword, and by fire, and by captivity, and by assaults for many days
    34: And when they have fallen, they will be supported with a little help, but many will apply to them deceitfully
    35: And some of the learned will be ruined, that they may be kindled and chosen and purified, up to the predetermined time, because there will be still another time
    36: And the king will act according to his will, and he will be lifted up and will be extolled against every god. And he will speak great things against the God of gods, and he will control, until the passion is completed. Once accomplished, the limit is reached with certainty
    37: And he will give no thought to the God of his fathers, and he will be in the desire of women, and he will not attend to any gods, because he will rise up against all things
    38: But he will do homage to the god Maozim in his place, and, a god whom his fathers did not know, he will worship with gold, and silver, and precious stones, and costly things
    39: And he will act to reinforce Maozim with an alien god, of whom he has become aware, and he will increase their glory, and will give them power over many, and he will distribute land for free
    40: And, at the predetermined time, the king of the South will fight against him, and the king of the North will come against him like a tempest, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with a great fleet, and he will enter into the lands, and will crush and pass through
    41: And he will enter into the glorious land, and many will fall. But only these will be saved from his hand:  Edom, and Moab, and the first part of the sons of Ammon
    42: And he will cast his hand upon the lands, and the land of Egypt will not escape
    43: And he will rule over the treasure chests of gold, and silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and likewise he will pass through Libya and Ethiopia
    44: And rumors from the East and from the North will trouble him. And he will arrive with a great multitude to destroy and to execute many
    45: And he will fasten his tabernacle, Apadno, between the seas, upon an illustrious and holy mountain, and he will come even to its summit, and no one will help him.

  Chapter 12.

    1: “But at that time Michael will rise up, the great leader, who stands up for the sons of your people. And a time will come, such as has not been from the time that nations began, even until that time. And, at that time, your people will be saved, all who will be found written in the book
    2: And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth will awaken:  some to everlasting life, and others to a reproach that they will always see
    3: But those who have taught will shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who instruct many towards justice, like the stars for unending eternity
    4: But you, Daniel, close the message and seal the book, until the established time. Many will pass through, and knowledge will be increased.
    5: And I, Daniel, looked, and behold, similarly two others stood up, one over here, on the bank of the river, and the other over there, on the other bank of the river
    6: And I said to the man, who was clothed in linen, who stood over the waters of the river, “How long will it be until the end of these wonders?
    7: And I heard the man, who was clothed in linen, who stood over the waters of the river, when he had lifted his right hand and his left hand up to heaven, and had sworn by He who lives forever, that it would be for a time, and times, and half a time. And when the dispersion of the hand of the holy people is completed, all these things will be completed
    8: And I heard and did not understand. And I said, “My lord, what will be after these things?
    9: And he said, “Go, Daniel, for the words are closed and sealed until the predetermined time
    10: Many will be chosen and purified, and, as if by fire, they will be tested, and the impious will act impiously, and none of the impious will understand, yet the teachers will understand
    11: And from the time when the continual sacrifice will be taken away and the abomination of desolation will be set up, there will be one thousand two hundred ninety days
    12: Blessed is he who waits and reaches until one thousand three hundred thirty-five days
    13: But you, go, until the predetermined time, and you will rest and will stand in your allotted place at the end of days

End of day 253.