Day 319:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Above all else, it is being said that there is fornication among you, even fornication of a such kind that is not among the Gentiles, so that someone would have the wife of his father
    2: And yet you are inflated, and you have not instead been grieved, so that he who has done this thing would be taken away from your midst
    3: Certainly, though absent in body, I am present in spirit. Thus, I have already judged, as if I were present, him who has done this
    4: In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have been gathered together with my spirit, in the power of our Lord Jesus
    5: to hand over such a one as this to Satan, for the destruction of the flesh, so that the spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ
    6: It is not good for you to glory. Do you not know that a little leaven corrupts the entire mass
    7: Purge the old leaven, so that you may become the new bread, for you are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover, has now been immolated
    8: And so, let us feast, not with the old leaven, not with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth
    9: As I have written to you in an epistle: “Do not associate with fornicators,
    10: certainly not with the fornicators of this world, nor with the greedy, nor with robbers, nor with the servants of idolatry. Otherwise, you ought to depart from this world
    11: But now I have written to you: do not associate with anyone who is called a brother and yet is a fornicator, or greedy, or a servant of idolatry, or a slanderer, or inebriated, or a robber. With such a one as this, do not even take food
    12: For what have I to do with judging those who are outside? But do not even you yourselves judge those who are inside
    13: For those who are outside, God will judge. But send this evil person away from yourselves

  Chapter 6.

    1: How is it that anyone of you, having a dispute against another, would dare to be judged before the iniquitous, and not before the saints
    2: Or do you not know that the saints from this age shall judge it? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you unworthy, then, to judge even the smallest matters
    3: Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more the things of this age
    4: Therefore, if you have matters to judge concerning this age, why not appoint those who are most contemptible in the Church to judge these things
    5: But I am speaking so as to shame you. Is there no one among you wise enough, so that he might be able to judge between his brothers
    6: Instead, brother contends against brother in court, and this before the unfaithful
    7: Now there is certainly an offense among you, beyond everything else, when you have court cases against one another. Should you not accept injury instead? Should you not endure being cheated instead
    8: But you are doing the injuring and the cheating, and this toward brothers
    9: Do you not know that the iniquitous will not possess the kingdom of God? Do not choose to wander astray. For neither fornicators, nor servants of idolatry, nor adulterers
    10: nor the effeminate, nor males who sleep with males, nor thieves, nor the avaricious, nor the inebriated, nor slanderers, nor the rapacious shall possess the kingdom of God
    11: And some of you were like this. But you have been absolved, but you have been sanctified, but you have been justified: all in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God
    12: All is lawful to me, but not all is expedient. All is lawful to me, but I will not be driven back by the authority of anyone
    13: Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food. But God shall destroy both the stomach and food. And the body is not for fornication, but rather for the Lord; and the Lord is for the body
    14: Truly, God has raised up the Lord, and he will raise us up by his power
    15: Do you not know that your bodies are a part of Christ? So then, should I take a part of Christ and make it a part of a harlot? Let it not be so
    16: And do you not know that whoever is joined to a harlot becomes one body? “For the two,” he said, “shall be as one flesh.
    17: But whoever is joined to the Lord is one spirit
    18: Flee from fornication. Every sin whatsoever that a man commits is outside of the body, but whoever fornicates, sins against his own body
    19: Or do you not know that your bodies are the Temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own
    20: For you have been bought at a great price. Glorify and carry God in your body

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now concerning the things about which you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman
    2: But, because of fornication, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband
    3: A husband should fulfill his obligation to his wife, and a wife should also act similarly toward her husband
    4: It is not the wife, but the husband, who has power over her body. But, similarly also, it is not the husband, but the wife, who has power over his body
    5: So, do not fail in your obligations to one another, except perhaps by consent, for a limited time, so that you may empty yourselves for prayer. And then, return together again, lest Satan tempt you by means of your abstinence
    6: But I am saying this, neither as an indulgence, nor as a commandment
    7: For I would prefer it if you were all like myself. But each person has his proper gift from God: one in this way, yet another in that way
    8: But I say to the unmarried and to widows: It is good for them, if they would remain as they are, just as I also am
    9: But if they cannot restrain themselves, they should marry. For it is better to marry, than to be burned
    10: But to those who have been joined in matrimony, it is not I who commands you, but the Lord: a wife is not to separate from her husband
    11: But if she has separated from him, she must remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband should not divorce his wife
    12: Concerning the rest, I am speaking, not the Lord. If any brother has an unbelieving wife, and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her
    13: And if any woman has an unbelieving husband, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce her husband
    14: For the unbelieving husband has been sanctified through the believing wife, and the unbelieving wife has been sanctified through the believing husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean, whereas instead they are holy
    15: But if the unbeliever departs, let him depart. For a brother or sister cannot be made subject to servitude in this way. For God has called us to peace
    16: And how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife
    17: However, let each one walk just as the Lord has distributed to him, each one just as God has called him. And thus do I teach in all the churches
    18: Has any circumcised man been called? Let him not cover his circumcision. Has any uncircumcised man been called? Let him not be circumcised
    19: Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; there is only the observance of the commandments of God
    20: Let each and every one remain in the same calling to which he was called
    21: Are you a servant who has been called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you ever have the ability to be free, make use of it
    22: For any servant who has been called in the Lord is free in the Lord. Similarly, any free person who has been called is a servant in Christ
    23: You have been bought with a price. Do not be willing to become the servants of men
    24: Brothers, let each one, in whatever state he was called, remain in that state with God
    25: Now, concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord. But I give counsel, as one who has obtained the mercy of the Lord, so as to be faithful
    26: Therefore, I consider this to be good, because of the present necessity: that it is good for a man to be such as I am
    27: Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be freed. Are you free of a wife? Do not seek a wife
    28: But if you take a wife, you have not sinned. And if a virgin has married, she has not sinned. Even so, such as these will have the tribulation of the flesh. But I would spare you from this
    29: And so, this is what I say, brothers: The time is short. What remains of it is such that: those who have wives should be as if they had none
    30: and those who weep, as though they were not weeping; and those who rejoice, as if they were not rejoicing; and those who buy, as if they possessed nothing
    31: and those who use the things of this world, as if they were not using them. For the figure of this world is passing away
    32: But I would prefer you to be without worry. Whoever is without a wife is worried about the things of the Lord, as to how he may please God
    33: But whoever is with a wife is worried about the things of the world, as to how he may please his wife. And so, he is divided
    34: And the unmarried woman and the virgin think about the things that are of the Lord, so that she may be holy in body and in spirit. But she who is married thinks about the things that are of the world, as to how she may please her husband
    35: Furthermore, I am saying this for your own benefit, not in order to cast a snare over you, but toward whatever is honest and whatever may provide you with the ability to be without hindrance, so as to worship the Lord
    36: But if any man considers himself to seem dishonorable, concerning a virgin who is of adult age, and so it ought to be, he may do as he wills. If he marries her, he does not sin
    37: But if he has decided firmly in his heart, and he does not have any obligation, but only the power of his free will, and if he has judged this in his heart, to let her remain a virgin, he does well
    38: And so, he who joins with his virgin in matrimony does well, and he who does not join with her does better
    39: A woman is bound under the law for as long as her husband lives. But if her husband has died, she is free. She may marry whomever she wishes, but only in the Lord
    40: But she will be more blessed, if she remains in this state, in accord with my counsel. And I think that I, too, have the Spirit of God

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now concerning those things that are sacrificed to idols: we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but charity builds up
    2: But if anyone considers himself to know anything, he does not yet know in the way that he ought to know
    3: For if anyone loves God, he is known by him
    4: But as to the foods that are immolated to idols, we know that an idol in the world is nothing, and that no one is God, except One
    5: For although there are things that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, (if one even considers there to be many gods and many lords
    6: yet we know that there is only one God, the Father, from whom all things are, and in whom we are, and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom all things are, and by whom we are
    7: But knowledge is not in everyone. For some persons, even now, with consent to an idol, eat what has been sacrificed to an idol. And their conscience, being infirm, becomes polluted
    8: Yet food does not commend us to God. For if we eat, we will not have more, and if we do not eat, we will not have less
    9: But be careful not to let your liberty become a cause of sin to those who are weak
    10: For if anyone sees someone with knowledge sitting down to eat in idolatry, will not his own conscience, being infirm, be emboldened to eat what has been sacrificed to idols
    11: And should an infirm brother perish by your knowledge, even though Christ died for him
    12: So when you sin in this way against the brothers, and you harm their weakened conscience, then you sin against Christ
    13: Because of this, if food leads my brother to sin, I will never eat meat, lest I lead my brother to sin

End of day 319.