Day 193:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['4', '5', '6', '7']:

  Chapter 4.

    1: Son, you should not cheat the poor out of alms, nor should you avert your eyes from a poor man
    2: You should not despise the hungry soul, and you should not aggravate a poor man in his need
    3: You should not afflict the heart of the needy, and you should not delay an offer to someone in anguish
    4: You should not make requests of one who is greatly troubled, and you should not avert your face from the indigent
    5: You should not avert your eyes from the needy out of anger. And you should not abandon those who seek help from you, so that they speak curses behind your back
    6: For the pleadings of him who speaks curses of you, in the bitterness of his soul, will be heeded. For the One who made him will heed him
    7: Make yourself a friend to the congregation of the poor, and humble your soul before an elder, and humble your head before the great
    8: Turn your ear without sadness toward the poor, and repay your debt, and respond to him peacefully in meekness
    9: Free him who suffers injury at the hand of the arrogant, and do not carry animosity in your soul
    10: In judging, be merciful to the orphan, like a father, and be merciful to their mother, like a husband
    11: And then you shall be like an obedient son of the Most High, and he will take pity on you more than a mother would
    12: Wisdom breathes life into her sons, and she lifts up those who are seeking her, and she will precede them in the way of justice
    13: And he who loves her loves life. And those who watch for her shall embrace her delights
    14: Those who hold to her will inherit life. And whatever place she enters, God will bless
    15: Those who serve her will yield to what is holy. And God loves those who love wisdom
    16: He who listens to her shall judge the nations. And he who gazes upon her will remain secure
    17: If he believes in her, he will inherit her, and whatever arises from him will be confirmed
    18: For she walks with him through temptation, and she chooses him from the beginning
    19: She will lead fear and dread and trials over him, and she will crucify him with the tribulation of her doctrine, until she has tested him in his thoughts and she can trust in his soul
    20: And then she will strengthen him, and lead him along a straight path, and rejoice in him
    21: And she will disclose her secrets to him, and she will store up treasure, of the knowledge and understanding of justice, in him
    22: But if he has wandered astray, she will leave him behind, and she will deliver him into the hands of his enemy
    23: Son, be continually observant, and keep away from evil
    24: For the sake of your soul, you should not be ashamed to speak the truth
    25: For there is a shame that brings sin, and there is a shame that brings glory and grace
    26: You should not accept a face contrary to your own face, nor should you accept a lie contrary to your own soul
    27: You should not enjoy the fall of your neighbor
    28: Neither should you withhold words at an opportunity for salvation. You should not conceal your wisdom in her beauty
    29: For wisdom is discerned within speech. And understanding and knowledge and doctrine are discerned in the words of those who understand and by their steadfastness in the works of justice
    30: You should not contradict a word of truth in any way. Otherwise, by a falsehood born of ignorance, you will be confounded
    31: You should not be ashamed to confess your sins, but do not subject yourself to any man because of sin
    32: Do not choose to stand against the face of the powerful, for you should not strive against the current of the river
    33: Suffer for justice, on behalf of your soul, and struggle, even unto death, on behalf of justice, and God will fight against your enemies on your behalf
    34: Do not choose to be quick with your words, nor unproductive or neglectful in your works
    35: Do not choose to be like a lion in your house, distressing those of your household, and oppressing those who are subject to you
    36: Do not let your hand be open when receiving, but closed when giving

  Chapter 5.

    1: Do not choose to seek iniquitous possessions, and you should not say: “I have all I need in life.” For it will be of no benefit to you in the time of retribution and darkness
    2: You should not pursue, in your strength, the desires of your heart
    3: And you should not say: “How powerful am I?” or, “Who will cast me down because of my deeds?” For God will vindicate with vengeance
    4: You should not say, “I sinned, and what grief has befallen me?” For the Most High is a patient recompensor
    5: Do not be willing to be without fear concerning a forgiven sin, and you should not add sin upon sin
    6: And you should not say: “The compassion of the Lord is great; he will take pity on the multitude of my sins.
    7: For both mercy and wrath go forth quickly from him, and his wrath sets its gaze upon sinners
    8: You should not delay being converted to the Lord, and you should not set it aside from day to day
    9: For his wrath will approach suddenly, and in the time of vindication, he will destroy you
    10: Do not choose to be anxious for unjust wealth. For these things will not benefit you in the day of darkness and retribution
    11: You should not winnow in every wind, and you should not go forth into every path. For so is every sinner proven by his duplicitous tongue
    12: Be steadfast in the way of the Lord and in the truth of your understanding and knowledge, and let words of peace and justice overtake you
    13: Be meek when listening to a word, so that you may understand. And offer a true response in wisdom
    14: If you understand, then answer your neighbor. But if you do not, then let your hand be over your mouth, so that you are not caught by an inept word, and then confounded
    15: Honor and glory are in the words of those who understand, yet truly, the tongue of the imprudent man is his undoing
    16: You should not be called a whisperer, and you should not be caught by your own tongue, and then confounded
    17: For confusion and remorse is upon a thief, and a wicked mark is upon the double-tongued; but for the whisperer, there is hatred and animosity and disgrace
    18: Justify the small and the great similarly

  Chapter 6.

    1: Do not be willing to become an enemy instead of a friend to your neighbor. For an evil man will inherit reproach and disgrace, as will every sinner who is envious and double-tongued
    2: You should not extol yourself, like a bull, in the thoughts of your soul, lest perhaps your strength may be cast down through foolishness
    3: which would consume your leaves, and destroy your fruit, and leave you behind like a dry tree in the desert
    4: For a wicked soul will destroy the one who has it. For it gladly provides enemies to him, and it will lead him to the fate of the impious
    5: A sweet word multiplies friends and mitigates enemies. And thankful words abound in a good man
    6: Allow many to be at peace with you, but allow one out of a thousand to be your counselor
    7: If you would obtain a friend, test him before you accept him, and do not trust him readily
    8: For there is a friend according to his own time, but he will not remain in the day of tribulation
    9: And there is a friend who can be turned to animosity. And there is a friend who will reveal hatred and ridicule and insults
    10: And there is a friend who is a companion at table, but he will not remain in a day of need
    11: A friend, if he remains steadfast, will be to you as you are to yourself, and he will act with faithfulness among those of your household
    12: If he humbles himself before you and hides himself from your face, you shall have a noble and harmonious friendship
    13: Distance yourself from your enemies, and pay attention to your friends
    14: A faithful friend is a strong shelter, and whoever has found one has found a treasure
    15: Nothing is comparable to a faithful friend, and no weight of silver or gold is worth more than the goodness of his fidelity
    16: A faithful friend is a medicine for life and immortality; and those who fear the Lord will find one
    17: He who fears God will have a similar good friendship, because his friend will be like him
    18: Son, from your youth receive instruction, and then you will find wisdom, even to your grey hairs
    19: Approach wisdom like one who plows and sows, and then wait for her good fruits
    20: For in doing her work, you will labor a little, but you will soon eat from her produce
    21: How exceedingly harsh is wisdom to unlearned men! And so, the witless will not remain with her
    22: She will be to them like a great stone of trial, and they will cast her away from them without delay
    23: For the wisdom of doctrine is in accord with her name, and she is not manifest to many. But she continues with those by whom she is recognized, even in the sight of God
    24: Listen, son, and accept an understanding counsel, for you should not discard my advice
    25: Set your feet in her fetters and your neck in her chains
    26: Incline your shoulder, and carry her, for you will not be grieved by her bindings
    27: Approach her with all your soul, and serve her ways with all your strength
    28: Examine her, and she will be revealed to you, and when you have obtained her, you should not abandon her
    29: For, in the very end, you will find rest in her, and she will turn into your delight
    30: Then her fetters will be a strong protection and a firm foundation for you, and her chains will be a robe of glory
    31: For in her is the beauty of life, and her bindings are a healing bandage
    32: You will be clothed with her as with a robe of glory, and you will set her upon your head like a crown of rejoicing
    33: Son, if you heed me, you will learn. And if you adapt your mind, you will be wise
    34: If you incline your ear, you will receive doctrine. And if you love to listen, you will be wise
    35: Stand among the multitude of prudent elders, and join yourself to their wisdom from the heart, so that you may be able to hear every discourse about God, and so that the proverbs of praise may not flee from you
    36: And if you see a man of understanding, stand watch for him, and let your feet wear down the steps of his doors
    37: Set your thoughts on the precepts of God, and be entirely constant in his commandments. And he himself will give a heart to you, and the desire of wisdom will be given to you

  Chapter 7.

    1: Do not choose to do evil, and evil will not take hold of you
    2: Withdraw from the iniquitous, and evil will withdraw from you
    3: Son, do not sow evil in the furrows of injustice, and you will not reap them sevenfold
    4: Do not seek a role of leadership from the Lord, and do not seek a seat of honor from the king
    5: You should not justify yourself before God, for he is the Knower of hearts. And by no means should you wish to seem wise before the king
    6: Do not seek to become a judge, unless you have sufficient strength to shatter iniquities. Otherwise, you might fear the face of the powerful, and so establish a scandal within your integrity
    7: You should not sin against the multitude of a city, nor should you cast yourself against the people
    8: And you should not bind two sins together. For even in one sin, you will not go unpunished
    9: Do not be cowardly in your soul
    10: You should not be unwilling to beg, nor to give alms
    11: You should not say: “God will look with favor on the multitude of my gifts, and when I make an offering to the most high God, he will accept my gift.
    12: You should not ridicule a man in bitterness of soul. For there is One who humbles and who exalts: the all-seeing God
    13: Do not love a lie against your brother, nor should you act the same toward your friend
    14: Do not be willing to devise a lie of any kind. For the practice of lying is not good
    15: Do not choose to be verbose among a multitude of elders, and you should not repeat the words of your prayers
    16: You should not hate laborious works, nor the rustic life created by the Most High
    17: You should not consider yourself to be among the multitude of the undisciplined
    18: Remember wrath. For it will not be delayed
    19: Humble your spirit greatly. For the retribution against the flesh of the impious is with fire and worms
    20: Do not betray your friend for the sake of money, and you should not spurn your dearest brother for the sake of gold
    21: Do not choose to depart from a good and understanding wife, whom you have been allotted in the fear of the Lord. For the grace of her modesty is above gold
    22: You should not harm the servant whose works are honest, nor the hired hand who entrusts his life to you
    23: Let an understanding servant be loved by you like your own soul. You should not cheat him out of freedom, nor abandon him to destitution
    24: Are cattle yours? Tend to them. And if they are useful, let them remain with you
    25: Are sons yours? Instruct them, and bow them down from their childhood
    26: Are daughters yours? Watch over their bodies. And you should not display a light-hearted attitude toward them
    27: Give your daughter in marriage, and give her to an understanding man, and you will be doing a great work
    28: If a wife in accord with your soul is yours, you should not reject her. But do not entrust yourself to her who is hateful.
    29: With your whole heart, honor your father. And you should not forget the complaints of your mother
    30: Remember that you would not have been born except through them. And so, give back to them as they also have done for you
    31: With all your soul, fear the Lord, and consider his priests to be holy
    32: With all your strength, love him who made you, and you should not abandon his ministers
    33: Honor God from your whole soul, and confer honor on the priests, and continue to purify yourself with your strength
    34: Give them their portion, just as it has been commanded of you, from the first-fruits and from the purifications. And for your ignorant offenses, purify yourself with a smaller offering
    35: You should offer to the Lord the gift of your strength, and the sacrifice of sanctification, and the first-fruits of what is holy
    36: And reach out your hand to the poor, so that your atonement and your blessing may be perfected
    37: A gift has grace in the sight of all the living, but you should not prohibit grace for the dead
    38: You should not fail to console those who are weeping, nor to walk with those who are mourning
    39: Do not let yourself be slow to visit the sick. For in this way, you will be confirmed in love
    40: In all your works, remember your very end, and so you will not sin, unto eternity

End of day 193.