Day 210:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The burden of the desert of the sea. Just as the whirlwinds approach from Africa, it approaches from the desert, from a terrible land
    2: A difficult vision has been announced to me: he who is unbelieving, he acts unfaithfully, and he who is a plunderer, he devastates. Ascend, O Elam! Lay siege, O Media! I have caused all its mourning to cease
    3: Because of this, my lower back has been filled with pain, and anguish has possessed me, like the anguish of a woman in labor. I fell down when I heard it. I was disturbed when I saw it
    4: My heart withered. The darkness stupefied me. Babylon, my beloved, has become a wonder to me
    5: Prepare the table. Contemplate, from a place of observation, those who eat and drink. Rise up, you leaders! Take up the shield
    6: For the Lord has said this to me: “Go and station a watchman. And let him announce whatever he will see.
    7: And he saw a chariot with two horsemen, and a rider on a donkey, and a rider on a camel. And he considered them diligently, with an intense gaze
    8: And a lion cried out: “I am on the watchtower of the Lord, standing continually by day. And I am at my station, standing throughout the night
    9: Behold, a certain man approaches, a man riding on a two-horse chariot.” And he responded, and he said: “Fallen, fallen is Babylon! And all its graven gods have been crushed into the earth
    10: O my threshed grain! O sons of my threshing floor! What I have heard from the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have announced to you.
    11: The burden of Dumah, cried out to me from Seir: “Watchman, how goes the night? Watchman, how goes the night?
    12: The watchman said: “Morning approaches with the night. If you are seeking: seek, and convert, and approach.
    13: The burden in Arabia. In the forest you shall sleep, in the evening on the paths of Dedanim
    14: You who inhabit the land of the south: upon meeting the thirsty, bring water; meet the fugitive with bread
    15: For they are fleeing before the face of swords, before the face of a sword hanging over them, before the face of a bent bow, before the face of a grievous battle
    16: For the Lord said this to me: “After one more year, just like one year for a hired hand, all the glory of Kedar will be taken away
    17: And the remainder of the multitude of strong archers from the sons of Kedar will be few, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has spoken it.

  Chapter 22.

    1: The burden of the valley of vision. What does it mean to you, then, that each of you have even climbed to the rooftops
    2: Filled with clamor, a busy city, an exultant city: your dead have not been slain by the sword, nor did they die in battle
    3: All your leaders have fled together, and they have been bound by hardship. All who were found were chained together. They have fled far away
    4: For this reason, I said: “Depart from me. I will weep bitterly. Make no attempt to console me, over the devastation of the daughter of my people.
    5: For it is a day of death, and of trampling, and of weeping to the Lord, the God of hosts, in the valley of vision: examining the wall and the magnificence above the mountain
    6: And Elam took up the quiver and the chariot of the horseman; and he stripped the wall of the shield
    7: And your elect valleys will be filled with chariots, and the horsemen will position themselves at the gates
    8: And the covering of Judah will be exposed, and in that day, you will see the weaponry of the forest house
    9: And you will see breaches in the city of David, for these have been multiplied. But you have gathered together the waters of the lower fish-pool
    10: And you have numbered the houses of Jerusalem. And you have destroyed the houses in order to fortify the wall
    11: And you have made a pit between two walls for the waters of the ancient fish-pool. But you have not gazed upward to him who made it, and you have not considered, even from a distance, its Maker
    12: And in that day, the Lord, the God of hosts, will call to weeping and mourning, to baldness and the wearing of sackcloth
    13: But behold: gladness and rejoicing, the killing of calves and the slaughter of rams, the eating of meat and the drinking of wine: “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die.
    14: And the voice of the Lord of hosts was revealed in my ears: “Surely this iniquity will not be forgiven you, until you die,” says the Lord, the God of hosts
    15: Thus says the Lord, the God of hosts: Go forth and enter to him who lives in the tabernacle, to Shebna, who is in charge of the temple, and you shall say to him
    16: “What are you here, or who are you claiming to be here? For you have hewn a sepulcher for yourself here. You have diligently hewn a memorial in a rock, as a tabernacle to yourself
    17: Behold, the Lord will cause you to be carried away, like a domesticated rooster, and he will remove you, like an outer garment
    18: He will crown you with a crown of tribulation. He will toss you like a ball into a broad and spacious land. There you will die, and there the chariot of your glory will be, for it is a shame to the house of your Lord.
    19: And I will expel you from your station, and I will depose you from your ministry
    20: And this shall be in that day: I will call my servant Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah
    21: And I will clothe him with your vestment, and I will strengthen him with your belt, and I will give your authority to his hand. And he shall be like a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah
    22: And I will place the key of the house of David upon his shoulder. And when he opens, no one will close. And when he closes, no one will open
    23: And I will fasten him like a peg in a trustworthy place. And he will be upon a throne of glory in the house of his father
    24: And they will suspend over him all the glory of his father’s house: various kinds of vessels and every little article, from the vessels of bowls even to every instrument of music
    25: In that day, says the Lord of hosts, the peg which was fastened in a trustworthy place shall be taken away. And he will be broken, and he will fall, and he will perish, along with all that had depended upon him, because the Lord has spoken it

  Chapter 23.

    1: The burden of Tyre. Wail, you ships of the sea! For the house, from which they were accustomed to go forth, has been laid waste. From the land of Kittim, this has been revealed to them
    2: Be silent, you inhabitants of the island! The merchants of Sidon, crossing over the sea, have filled you
    3: The offspring of the Nile is in the midst of many waters. The harvest of the river is her crop. And she has become the marketplace of the nations
    4: Be ashamed, O Sidon! For the sea speaks, the strength of the sea, saying: “I have not been in labor, and I have not given birth, and I have not raised young men, nor have I promoted the development of virgins.
    5: When it has been heard in Egypt, they will be in anguish, when they hear of Tyre
    6: Cross over the seas. Wail, you inhabitants of the island
    7: Is this not your place, which from its earliest days has gloried in its antiquity? Her feet will lead her to a sojourn far away
    8: Who has made this plan against Tyre, which formerly was crowned, whose merchants were leaders, whose traders were illustrious on the earth
    9: The Lord of hosts has planned this, so that he may tear down the arrogance of all glory, and may bring disgrace to all the illustrious of the earth
    10: Cross through your land, as through a river, O daughter of the sea. You no longer have a belt
    11: He has extended his hand over the sea. He has stirred up kingdoms. The Lord has given an order against Canaan, so that he may crush its strong
    12: And he said: “You shall no longer increase so as to glory, while enduring calumny, O virgin daughter of Sidon. Rise up and set sail for Kittim; in that place, too, there will be no rest for you.
    13: Behold, the land of the Chaldeans: never before was there such a people! Assur founded it. They have led away its strong ones into captivity. They have dug under its houses. They have left it in ruins
    14: Wail, you ships of the sea! For your strength has been devastated
    15: And this shall be in that day: you, O Tyre, will be forgotten for seventy years, like the days of one king. Then, after seventy years, there will be, for Tyre, something like the canticle of a harlot
    16: Take up a stringed instrument. Circulate through the city, you harlot who had been forgotten. Sing many canticles well, so that you may be remembered
    17: And this shall be after seventy years: the Lord will visit Tyre, and he will lead her back to her profits. And she will fornicate again with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth
    18: And her businesses and her profits will be sanctified to the Lord. They will not be locked away and they will not be stored. For her business will be for those who will live in the presence of the Lord, so that they may eat until satisfied, and may be well-clothed even into old age

  Chapter 24.

    1: Behold, the Lord will lay waste to the earth, and he will strip it, and he will afflict its surface, and he will scatter its inhabitants
    2: And this shall be: as with the people, so with the priest; and as with the servant, so with his master; as with the handmaid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the creditor, so with the debtor
    3: The earth will be utterly devastated and utterly plundered. For the Lord has spoken this word
    4: The earth mourned, and slipped away, and languished. The world slipped away; the loftiness of the people of the earth was weakened
    5: And the earth was corrupted by its inhabitants. For they have transgressed the laws, they have changed the ordinance, they have dissipated the everlasting covenant
    6: Because of this, a curse will devour the earth, and its inhabitants will sin. And for this reason, its caretakers will become crazed, and few men will be left behind
    7: The vintage has mourned. The vine has languished. All those who were rejoicing in their hearts have groaned
    8: The gladness of the drums has ceased. The sound of rejoicing has quieted. The sweetness of stringed instruments has been silenced
    9: They will not drink wine with a song. The drink will be bitter to those who drink it
    10: The city of vanity has been worn away. Every house has been closed up; no one enters
    11: There will be a clamor for wine in the streets. All rejoicing has been abandoned. The gladness of the earth has been carried away
    12: Solitude is what remains in the city, and calamity will overwhelm its gates
    13: For so shall it be in the midst of the earth, in the midst of the people: it is as if the few remaining olives are being shaken from the olive tree, and it is like a few clusters of grapes, when the grape harvest has already ended
    14: These few shall lift up their voice and give praise. When the Lord will have been glorified, they will make a joyful noise from the sea
    15: Because of this, glorify the Lord in doctrine: the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, in the islands of the sea
    16: From the ends of the earth, we have heard the praises of the glory of the Just One. And I said: “My secret is for myself! My secret is for myself! Woe to me! Those who would betray us have betrayed us, and they have betrayed us with the betrayal of transgression.
    17: Dread, and the pit, and the snare are over you, O inhabitant of the earth
    18: And this shall be: whoever will flee from the voice of dread will fall into the pit. And whoever will extricate himself from the pit will be caught in the snare. For the floodgates from above have been opened, and the foundations of the earth will be shaken
    19: The earth will be utterly broken! The earth will be utterly crushed! The earth will be utterly shaken
    20: The earth will stagger greatly, like a drunken man, and will be carried away, like the tent of a single night. And its iniquity will be heavy upon it, and it will fall and not rise up again
    21: And this shall be: in that day, the Lord will visit upon the armies of the sky above, and upon the kings of the earth who are on the ground
    22: And they will be gathered together like the gathering of one bundle into a pit. And they will be enclosed in that place, as in a prison. And after many days, they will be visited
    23: And the moon will be ashamed, and the sun will be confounded, when the Lord of hosts will reign on mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and when he will have been glorified in the sight of his elders

End of day 210.