Day 151:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['61', '62', '63', '64']:

  Chapter 61.

    1: Unto the end. For Jeduthun. A Psalm of David
    2: Will my soul not be subject to God? For from him is my salvation
    3: Yes, he himself is my God and my salvation. He is my supporter; I will be moved no more
    4: How is it that you rush against a man? Every one of you puts to death, as if you were pulling down a ruined wall, leaning over and falling apart
    5: So, truly, they intended to reject my price. I ran in thirst. They blessed with their mouth and cursed with their heart
    6: Yet, truly, my soul will be subject to God. For from him is my patience
    7: For he is my God and my Savior. He is my helper; I will not be expelled
    8: In God is my salvation and my glory. He is the God of my help, and my hope is in God
    9: All peoples gathered together: trust in him. Pour out your hearts in his sight. God is our helper for eternity
    10: So, truly, the sons of men are untrustworthy. The sons of men are liars in the scales, so that, by emptiness, they may deceive among themselves
    11: Do not trust in iniquity, and do not desire plunder. If riches flow toward you, do not be willing to set your heart on them
    12: God has spoken once. I have heard two things: that power belongs to God
    13: and that mercy belongs to you, O Lord. For you will repay each one according to his works

  Chapter 62.

    1: A Psalm of David, when he was in the desert of Idumea
    2: O God, my God: to you, I keep vigil until first light. For you, my soul has thirsted, to you my body, in so many ways
    3: By a deserted land, both inaccessible and waterless, so I have appeared in the sanctuary before you, in order to behold your virtue and your glory
    4: For your mercy is better than life itself. It is you my lips will praise
    5: So will I bless you in my life, and I will lift up my hands in your name
    6: Let my soul be filled, as if with marrow and fatness; and my mouth will give praise with exultant lips
    7: When I have remembered you on my bed in the morning, I will meditate on you
    8: For you have been my helper. And I will exult under the cover of your wings
    9: My soul has clung close to you. Your right hand has supported me
    10: Truly, these ones have sought my soul in vain. They will enter into the lower parts of the earth
    11: They will be delivered into the hand of the sword. They will be the portions of foxes
    12: Truly, the king will rejoice in God: all those who swear by him will be praised, because the mouth of those who speak iniquity has been blocked

  Chapter 63.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: Hear, O God, my prayer of supplication. Rescue my soul from the fear of the enemy
    3: You have protected me from the assembly of the malignant, from a multitude of workers of iniquity
    4: For they have sharpened their tongues like a sword; they have formed their bow into a bitter thing
    5: so that they may shoot arrows from hiding at the immaculate
    6: They will suddenly shoot arrows at him, and they will not be afraid. They are resolute in their wicked talk. They have discussed hidden snares. They have said, “Who will see them?
    7: They have been searching carefully for iniquities. Their exhaustive search has failed. Man will approach with a deep heart
    8: and God will be exalted. The arrows of the little ones have become their wounds
    9: and their tongues have been weakened against them. All those who saw them have been troubled
    10: and every man was afraid. And they announced the works of God, and they understood his acts
    11: The just will rejoice in the Lord, and they will hope in him. And all the upright of heart will be praised

  Chapter 64.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David. A Canticle of Jeremiah and Ezekiel to the people of the captivity, when they began to go into exile
    2: O God, a hymn adorns you in Zion, and a vow will be repaid to you in Jerusalem
    3: Hear my prayer: all flesh will come to you
    4: Words of iniquity have prevailed over us. And you will pardon our impieties
    5: Blessed is he whom you have chosen and taken up. He will dwell in your courts. We will be filled with the good things of your house. Holy is your temple
    6: wonderful in equity. Hear us, O God our Savior, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of a sea far away
    7: You prepare the mountains in your virtue, wrapped with power
    8: You stir up the depths of the sea, the noise of its waves. The nations will be troubled
    9: and those who dwell at the limits will be afraid, before your signs. You will make the passing of morning and evening enjoyable
    10: You have visited the earth, and you have saturated it. You have enriched it in so many ways. The river of God has been filled with water. You have prepared their food. For thus is its preparation
    11: Drench its streams, multiply its fruits; it will spring up and rejoice in its showers
    12: You will bless the crown of the year with your kindness, and your fields will be filled with abundance
    13: The beauty of the desert will fatten, and the hills will be wrapped with exultation
    14: The rams of the sheep have been clothed, and the valleys will abound with grain. They will cry out; yes, they will even utter a hymn

End of day 151.