Day 356:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And the fifth Angel sounded the trumpet. And I saw upon the earth, a star that had fallen from heaven, and the key to the well of the abyss was given to him
    2: And he opened the well of the abyss. And the smoke of the well ascended, like the smoke of a great furnace. And the sun and the air were obscured by the smoke of the well
    3: And locusts went forth from the smoke of the well into the earth. And power was given to them, like the power that the scorpions of the earth have
    4: And it was commanded of them that they must not harm the plants of the earth, nor anything green, nor any tree, but only those men who do not have the Seal of God upon their foreheads
    5: And it was given to them that they would not kill them, but that they would torture them for five months. And their torture was like the torture of a scorpion, when he strikes a man
    6: And in those days, men will seek death and they will not find it. And they will desire to die, and death will flee from them
    7: And the likenesses of the locusts resembled horses prepared for battle. And upon their heads were something like crowns similar to gold. And their faces were like the faces of men
    8: And they had hair like the hair of women. And their teeth were like the teeth of lions
    9: And they had breastplates like iron breastplates. And the noise of their wings was like the noise of many running horses, rushing to battle
    10: And they had tails similar to scorpions. And there were stingers in their tails, and these had the power to harm men for five months
    11: And they had over them a king, the Angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew is Doom; in Greek, Destroyer; in Latin, Exterminator
    12: One woe has gone out, but behold, there are still two woes approaching afterward
    13: And the sixth Angel sounded the trumpet. And I heard a lone voice from the four horns of the golden altar, which is before the eyes of God
    14: saying to the sixth Angel who had the trumpet: “Release the four Angels who were bound at the great river Euphrates.
    15: And the four Angels were released, who had been prepared for that hour, and day, and month, and year, in order to kill one third part of men
    16: And the number of the army of horsemen was two hundred million. For I heard their number
    17: And I also saw the horses in the vision. And those who were sitting upon them had breastplates of fire and hyacinth and sulphur. And the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions. And from their mouths proceeded fire and smoke and sulphur
    18: And one third part of men were slain by these three afflictions: by the fire and by the smoke and by the sulphur, which proceeded from their mouths
    19: For the power of these horses is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails resemble serpents, having heads; and it is with these that they cause harm
    20: And the rest of men, who were not slain by these afflictions, did not repent from the works of their hands, so that they would not worship demons, or idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which can neither see, nor hear, nor walk
    21: And they did not repent from their murders, nor from their drugs, nor from their fornication, nor from their thefts

  Chapter 10.

    1: And I saw another strong Angel, descending from heaven, clothed with a cloud. And a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet were like columns of fire
    2: And he held in his hand a small open book. And he stationed his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot upon the land
    3: And he cried out with a great voice, in the manner of a lion roaring. And when he had cried out, seven thunders uttered their voices
    4: And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write. But I heard a voice from heaven, saying to me: “Seal the things that the seven thunders have spoken, and do not write them.
    5: And the Angel, whom I saw standing upon the sea and upon the land, lifted up his hand toward heaven
    6: And he swore by the One who lives forever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that are in it; and the earth, and the things that are in it; and the sea, and the things that are in it: that the time will not be any longer
    7: but in the days of the voice of the seventh Angel, when he shall begin to sound the trumpet, the mystery of God will be completed, just as he has proclaimed in the Gospel, through his servants the Prophets
    8: And again, I heard a voice from heaven speaking with me and saying: “Go and receive the open book from the hand of the Angel who stands upon the sea and upon the land.
    9: And I went to the Angel, saying to him that he should give the book to me. And he said to me: “Receive the book and consume it. And it shall cause bitterness in your stomach, but in your mouth it shall be sweet like honey.
    10: And I received the book from the hand of the Angel, and I consumed it. And it was sweet like honey in my mouth. And when I had consumed it, my stomach was made bitter
    11: And he said to me, “It is necessary for you to prophesy again about many nations and peoples and languages and kings.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And a reed, similar to a staff, was given to me. And it was said to me: “Rise up and measure the temple of God, and those who are worshiping in it, and the altar
    2: But the atrium, which is outside of the temple, set it aside and do not measure it, because it has been given over to the Gentiles. And they shall trample upon the Holy City for forty-two months
    3: And I will present my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth
    4: These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, standing in the sight of the lord of the earth
    5: And if anyone will want to harm them, fire shall go forth from their mouths, and it shall devour their enemies. And if anyone will want to wound them, so must he be slain
    6: These have the power to close up the heavens, so that it may not rain during the days of their prophesying. And they have power over the waters, to convert them into blood, and to strike the earth with every kind of affliction as often as they will
    7: And when they will have finished their testimony, the beast that ascended from the abyss will make war against them, and will overcome them, and will kill them
    8: And their bodies shall lie in the streets of the Great City, which is figuratively called ‘Sodom’ and ‘Egypt,’ the place where their Lord also was crucified
    9: And those from the tribes and peoples and languages and nations shall be watching their bodies for three and one half days. And they shall not permit their bodies to be placed in tombs
    10: And the inhabitants of the earth will rejoice over them, and they will celebrate, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tortured those who were living upon the earth
    11: And after three and one half days, the spirit of life from God entered into them. And they stood upright on their feet. And a great fear fell over those who saw them
    12: And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying to them, “Ascend to here!” And they ascended into heaven on a cloud. And their enemies saw them
    13: And at that hour, a great earthquake occurred. And one tenth part of the City fell. And the names of the men slain in the earthquake were seven thousand. And the remainder were thrown into fear, and they gave glory to the God of heaven
    14: The second woe has gone out, but behold, the third woe approaches quickly
    15: And the seventh Angel sounded the trumpet. And there were great voices in heaven, saying: “The kingdom of this world has become our Lord’s and his Christ’s, and he shall reign forever and ever. Amen.
    16: And the twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones in the sight of God, fell upon their faces, and they adored God, saying
    17: “We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is, and who was, and who is to come. For you have taken your great power, and you have reigned
    18: And the nations became angry, but your wrath arrived, and the time for the dead to be judged, and to render a reward to your servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to those who fear your name, small and great, and to exterminate those who have corrupted the earth.
    19: And the temple of God was opened in heaven. And the Ark of his Testament was seen in his temple. And there were lightnings and voices and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail

  Chapter 12.

    1: And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and on her head was a crown of twelve stars
    2: And being with child, she cried out while giving birth, and she was suffering in order to give birth
    3: And another sign was seen in heaven. And behold, a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven diadems
    4: And his tail drew down a third part of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman, who was about to give birth, so that, when she had brought forth, he might devour her son
    5: And she brought forth a male child, who was soon to rule all the nations with an iron rod. And her son was taken up to God and to his throne
    6: And the woman fled into solitude, where a place was being held ready by God, so that they might pasture her in that place for one thousand two hundred and sixty days
    7: And there was a great battle in heaven. Michael and his Angels were battling with the dragon, and the dragon was fighting, and so were his angels
    8: But they did not prevail, and a place for them was no longer found in heaven
    9: And he was thrown out, that great dragon, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, who seduces the whole world. And he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were cast down with him
    10: And I heard a great voice in heaven, saying: “Now have arrived salvation and virtue and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. For the accuser of our brothers has been cast down, he who accused them before our God day and night
    11: And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of his testimony. And they loved not their own lives, even unto death
    12: Because of this, rejoice, O heavens, and all who dwell within it. Woe to the earth and to the sea! For the devil has descended to you, holding great anger, knowing that he has little time.
    13: And after the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who brought forth the male child
    14: And the two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman, so that she might fly away, into the desert, to her place, where she is being nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent
    15: And the serpent sent out from his mouth, after the woman, water like a river, so that he might cause her to be carried away by the river
    16: But the earth assisted the woman. And the earth opened her mouth and absorbed the river, which the dragon sent out from his mouth
    17: And the dragon was angry at the woman. And so he went away to do battle with the remainder of her offspring, those who keep the commandments of God and who hold to the testimony of Jesus Christ
    18: And he stood upon the sand of the sea

End of day 356.