Day 178:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: A dry morsel with gladness is better than a house full of sacrifices along with conflict
    2: A wise servant shall rule over foolish sons, and he will divide the inheritance among brothers
    3: Just as silver is tested by fire, and gold is tested in the furnace, so also does the Lord test hearts
    4: The evil obey an unjust tongue. And the false are submissive to lying lips
    5: Whoever despises the poor rebukes his Maker. And whoever rejoices in the ruin of another will not go unpunished
    6: Sons of sons are the crown of old age. And the glory of sons is their fathers
    7: Well-chosen words are not fitting for the foolish, nor are lying lips fitting for a leader
    8: The expectation of those who stand ready is a most pleasing jewel. Whichever way he turns himself, he understands prudently
    9: Whoever conceals an offense seeks friendships. Whoever repeats the words of another separates allies
    10: A correction benefits more with a wise man, than a hundred stripes with a fool
    11: The evil one continually seeks conflicts. But a cruel Angel shall be sent against him
    12: It is more expedient to meet a bear robbed of her young, than the foolish trusting in his own folly
    13: Whoever repays evil for good, evil shall not withdraw from his house
    14: Whoever releases the water is the head of the conflict. And just before he suffers contempt, he abandons judgment
    15: Those who justify the impious, and those who condemn the just, both are abominable with God
    16: What does it profit the foolish to have riches, when he is not able to buy wisdom? Whoever makes his house high seeks ruin. And whoever shuns learning shall fall into evils
    17: Whoever is a friend loves at all times. And a brother is proved by distress
    18: A foolish man will clap his hands, when he makes a pledge for his friend
    19: Whoever dwells on discord loves disputes. And whoever exalts his door seeks ruin
    20: Whoever is of a perverse heart shall not find good. And whoever turns his tongue shall fall into evil
    21: A foolish one is born into his own disgrace. But his father will not rejoice in one who is senseless
    22: A joyful soul makes a lifetime flourish. A gloomy spirit dries out the bones
    23: The impious receives gifts from the bosom, so that he may pervert the paths of judgment
    24: Prudence shines from the face of the wise. The eyes of the foolish are on the ends of the earth
    25: A foolish son is the anger of the father and the grief of the mother who conceived him
    26: It is not good to inflict damage on the just, nor to strike the leader who judges uprightly
    27: Whoever moderates his words is learned and prudent. And a man of learning has a precious spirit
    28: If he would remain silent, even the foolish would be considered wise, and if he closes his lips, intelligent

  Chapter 18.

    1: Whoever has a will to withdraw from a friend, seeks occasions; he shall be reproached at all times
    2: The foolish do not accept words of prudence, unless you say what is already turning in his heart
    3: The impious, when he has arrived within the depths of sin, thinks little of it. But ill repute and disgrace follow him
    4: Words from the mouth of a man are deep waters. And the fountain of wisdom is a torrent overflowing
    5: It is not good to accept the character of the impious, so as to turn away from true judgment
    6: The lips of the foolish meddle in disputes. And his mouth provokes conflicts
    7: The mouth of the foolish is his destruction, and his own lips are the ruin of his soul
    8: The words of the double-tongued seem simple. And they reach even to the interior of the gut. Fear casts down the lazy, but the souls of the effeminate shall go hungry
    9: Whoever is dissolute and slack in his work is the brother of him who wastes his own works
    10: The name of the Lord is a very strong tower. The just one rushes to it, and he shall be exalted
    11: The substance of the wealthy is the city of his strength, and it is like a strong wall encircling him
    12: The heart of a man is exalted before it is crushed and humbled before it is glorified
    13: Whoever responds before he listens, demonstrates himself to be foolish and deserving of confusion
    14: The spirit of a man sustains his weakness. Yet who can sustain a spirit that is easily angered
    15: A prudent heart shall possess knowledge. And the ear of the wise seeks doctrine
    16: A man’s gift expands his way and makes space for him before leaders
    17: The just is the first accuser of himself; his friend arrives and shall investigate him
    18: Casting a lot suppresses contentions and passes judgment, even among the powerful
    19: A brother who is helped by a brother is like a reinforced city, and judgments are like the bars of cities
    20: From the fruit of a man’s mouth shall his belly be filled. And the harvest of his own lips shall satisfy him
    21: Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Whoever values it shall eat from its fruits
    22: He who has found a good wife has found goodness, and he shall draw contentment from the Lord. He who expels a good wife expels goodness. But he who holds on to an adulteress is foolish and impious
    23: The poor will speak with supplications. And the rich will express themselves roughly
    24: A man amiable to society shall be more friendly than a brother

  Chapter 19.

    1: Better is the poor who walks in his simplicity, than the rich who twists his lips and is unwise
    2: Where there is no knowledge of the soul, there is no good. And whoever hurries with his feet will stumble
    3: The foolishness of a man undermines his steps. And then he seethes in his soul against God
    4: Riches add many friends. But from the pauper, even those whom he had become separated
    5: A false witness shall not go unpunished. And whoever speaks lies will not escape
    6: Many honor the character of one who is powerful, and there are friends for a giver of gifts
    7: The brothers of the poor man hate him. Moreover, even his friends have withdrawn far from him. Whoever pursues only words shall have nothing
    8: But whoever possesses reason loves his own soul. And one who guards prudence shall discover good things
    9: A false witness shall not go unpunished. And whoever speaks lies will perish
    10: Fine things are not fitting for the foolish, nor is it fitting for a servant to rule over princes
    11: The doctrine of a man is known through patience. And his glory is to pass beyond iniquities
    12: Like the roaring of a lion, so also is the wrath of a king. And his cheerfulness is like the dew upon the grass
    13: A foolish son is the grief of his father. And an argumentative wife is like a roof that is continually leaking
    14: A house and its riches are given by parents. But a prudent wife is particularly from the Lord
    15: Laziness sends one into a deep sleep, and a dissolute soul will go hungry
    16: Whoever guards a commandment guards his own soul. But whoever neglects his own way will die
    17: Whoever is merciful to the poor lends to the Lord. And he will repay him for his efforts
    18: Teach your son; do not despair. But do not set your soul toward putting him to death
    19: Whoever is impatient will sustain damage. And when it has been taken away, he will set up another
    20: Listen to counsel and take up discipline, so that you may be wise in your latter days
    21: There are many intentions in the heart of a man. But the will of the Lord shall stand firm
    22: An indigent man is merciful. And a pauper is better than a deceitful man
    23: The fear of the Lord is unto life. And he shall linger in plentitude, without being visited by disaster
    24: The lazy conceals his hand under his arm, and he will not so much as bring it to his mouth
    25: When the pestilent are scourged, the foolish will become wiser. But if you chastise the wise, he will understand discipline
    26: Whoever afflicts his father and flees from his mother is disreputable and unhappy
    27: Son, do not cease listening to doctrine, and do not be ignorant of the sermons of knowledge
    28: An unjust witness ridicules judgment. And the mouth of the impious devours iniquity
    29: Judgments are prepared for those who ridicule. And striking hammers are prepared for the bodies of the foolish

  Chapter 20.

    1: It is a luxurious thing, wine, and inebriation is tumultuous. Anyone who is delighted by this will not be wise
    2: Just like the roaring of a lion, so also is the dread of a king. Whoever provokes him sins in his own soul
    3: Honor is for the man who separates himself from contentions. But all the foolish meddle in altercations
    4: Because of the cold, the lazy one was not willing to plough. Therefore, in the summer, he will beg, and it will not be given to him
    5: Counsel in the heart of a man is like deep waters. But a wise man will draw it out
    6: Many men are called merciful. But who will find a faithful man
    7: The just who walks in his simplicity shall leave behind him blessed sons
    8: The king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his gaze
    9: Who is able to say: “My heart is clean. I am pure from sin?
    10: Diverse weights, diverse measures: both are abominable with God
    11: A child may be understood by his interests: whether his works may be clean and upright
    12: The hearing ear and the seeing eye: the Lord has made them both
    13: Do not love sleep, lest deprivation oppress you. Open your eyes and be satisfied with bread
    14: “It is bad, it is bad,” says every buyer; and when he has withdrawn, then he will boast
    15: There is gold, and there are a multitude of jewels. But lips of knowledge are a precious vessel
    16: Take away the vestments of him who stands up to vouch for a stranger, and take a pledge from him instead of from outsiders
    17: The bread of lies is sweet to a man. But afterwards, his mouth will be filled with pebbles
    18: Plans are strengthened by counsels. And wars are to be handled by governments
    19: Do not become involved with him who reveals mysteries, and who walks deceitfully, and who enlarges his lips
    20: Whoever curses his father and mother, his lamp will be extinguished in the midst of darkness
    21: When an inheritance is obtained hastily in the beginning, in the end it will be without a blessing
    22: Do not say, “I will repay evil.” Wait for the Lord, and he will free you
    23: Diverse weights are an abomination with the Lord. A deceitful balance is not good
    24: The steps of men are directed by the Lord. But who is the man able to understand his own way
    25: It is ruin for a man to devour what is holy, or, after making vows, to retract them
    26: A wise king scatters the impious and bends an archway over them
    27: The spirit of a man is a lamp to the Lord, which investigates all the secrets of the inner self
    28: Mercy and truth guard the king, and his throne is strengthened by clemency
    29: The joy of youths is their strength. And the dignity of old men is their grey hairs
    30: The bruise of a wound, as well as scourges, shall wipe away evils in the more secret places of the inner self

End of day 178.