Day 41:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And Moses summoned all of Israel, and he said to them: “Listen, O Israel, to the ceremonies and judgments, which I am speaking to your ears on this day. Learn them, and fulfill them in deed
    2: The Lord our God formed a covenant with us at Horeb
    3: He did not make the covenant with our fathers, but with us, who are alive and in the present time
    4: He spoke to us face to face on the mountain, from the midst of fire
    5: I was the mediator, for I was in the middle between the Lord and you, at that time, to announce his words to you. For you were afraid of the fire, and so you did not ascend to the mountain. And he said
    6: ‘I am the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, from the house of servitude
    7: You shall not have strange gods in my sight
    8: You shall not make for yourself a graven image, nor the likeness of anything, which is in heaven above, or on earth below, or which abides in the waters under the earth
    9: You shall not adore and you shall not worship these things. For I am the Lord your God, a jealous God, repaying the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons to the third and fourth generation to those who hate me
    10: and acting with mercy in thousands of ways to those who love me and keep my precepts
    11: You shall not use the name of the Lord your God in vain. For he will not go unpunished who takes up his name over an unimportant matter
    12: Observe the day of the Sabbath, so that you may sanctify it, just as the Lord your God has instructed you
    13: For six days, you shall labor and do all your work
    14: The seventh is the day of the Sabbath, that is, the rest of the Lord your God. You shall not do any work in it, nor shall your son, nor daughter, nor man servant, nor woman servant, nor ox, nor donkey, nor any of your cattle, nor the sojourner who is within your gates, so that your men and woman servants may rest, just as you do
    15: Remember that you also were servants in Egypt, and the Lord your God led you away from that place with a strong hand and an outstretched arm. Because of this, he has instructed you so that you would observe the Sabbath day
    16: Honor your father and mother, just as the Lord your God has instructed you, so that you may live a long time, and so that it may be well with you in the land, which the Lord your God will give to you
    17: You shall not murder
    18: And you shall not commit adultery
    19: And you shall not commit theft
    20: Neither shall you speak false testimony against your neighbor
    21: You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife, nor his house, nor his field, nor his man servant, nor his woman servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything out of all that is his.
    22: The Lord spoke these words to the entire multitude of you on the mountain, from the midst of the fire and the cloud and the darkness, with a loud voice, adding nothing more. And he wrote them on two tablets of stone, which he delivered to me
    23: Then, after you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness, and you saw the mountain burning, you approached me, all you leaders of the tribes and those greater by birth. And you said
    24: ‘Behold, the Lord our God has revealed to us his majesty and his greatness. We have heard his voice from the midst of fire, and we have proven today that, though God is speaking with man, man has lived
    25: Therefore, why should we die, and why should this very great fire devour us? For if we hear the voice of the Lord our God any longer, we will die
    26: What is all flesh, that it would hear the voice of the living God, who speaks from the midst of fire, just as we have heard it, and be able to live
    27: Instead, you should approach and listen to all the things that the Lord our God will say to you. And you will speak to us, and we will listen and do these things.
    28: But when the Lord had heard this, he said to me: ‘I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they spoke to you. All this, they have spoken well
    29: Who will grant to them to have such a mind, so that they may fear me, and may keep all my commandments at all times, so that it may be well with them and with their sons forever
    30: Go and say to them: Return to your tents
    31: But as for you, stand here with me, and I will speak to you all my commandments and ceremonies, as well as judgments. These, you shall teach them, so that they may do them in the land, which I will give to them as a possession
    32: And so, keep and do the things which the Lord God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside, neither to the right, nor to the left
    33: For you shall walk in the way that the Lord your God has instructed, so that you may live, and it may be well with you, and your days may be extended in the land of your possession.’ 

  Chapter 6.

    1: “These are the precepts and ceremonies, as well as the judgments, which the Lord your God has commanded that I teach to you, which you shall do in the land to which you will travel in order to possess it
    2: So may you fear the Lord your God, and keep all his commandments and precepts, which I am entrusting to you, and to your sons and grandsons, all the days of your life, so that your days may be prolonged
    3: Listen and observe, O Israel, so that you may do just as the Lord has instructed you, and it may be well with you, and you may be multiplied all the more, for the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you a land flowing with milk and honey
    4: Listen, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord
    5: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength
    6: And these words, which I instruct to you this day, shall be in your heart
    7: And you shall explain them to your sons. And you shall meditate upon them sitting in your house, and walking on a journey, when lying down and when rising up
    8: And you shall bind them like a sign on your hand, and they shall be placed and shall move between your eyes
    9: And you shall write them at the threshold and on the doors of your house
    10: And when the Lord your God will have led you into the land, about which he swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and when he will have given to you great and excellent cities, which you did not build
    11: houses full of goods, which you did not amass; cisterns, which you did not dig; vineyards and olive groves, which you did not plant
    12: and when you will have eaten and been satisfied
    13: take care diligently, lest you forget the Lord, who led you away from the land of Egypt, from the house of servitude. You shall fear the Lord your God, and you shall serve him alone, and you shall swear by his name
    14: You shall not go after the strange gods of all the Gentiles, who are around you
    15: For the Lord your God is a jealous God in your midst. Otherwise, at sometime, the fury of the Lord your God may be enraged against you, and he may take you away from the face of the earth
    16: You shall not tempt the Lord your God, as you tempted him in the place of temptation
    17: Keep the precepts of the Lord your God, as well as the testimonies and ceremonies, which he has instructed to you
    18: And do what is pleasing and good in the sight of the Lord, so that it may be well with you, and so that, when you enter, you may possess the excellent land, about which the Lord swore to your father
    19: that he would wipe away all your enemies before you, just as he has spoken
    20: And when your son will ask you tomorrow, saying: ‘What do these testimonies and ceremonies and judgments mean, which the Lord our God has entrusted to us?
    21: You shall say to him: ‘We were servants of Pharaoh in Egypt, and the Lord led us away from Egypt with a strong hand
    22: And he wrought signs and wonders, great and very grievous, in Egypt, against Pharaoh and all his house, in our sight
    23: And he led us away from that place, so that he might lead us in and give us the land, about which he swore to our fathers
    24: And the Lord instructed us that we should do all these ordinances, and that we should fear the Lord our God, so that it may be well with us all the days of our life, just as it is today
    25: And he will be merciful to us, if we keep and perform all his precepts, in the sight of the Lord our God, just as he has commanded us.’ 

  Chapter 7.

    1: “When the Lord your God will have led you to the land, which you will enter so as to possess it, and when he will have destroyed many nations before you, the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, seven nations much more numerous than you, and more robust than you
    2: and when the Lord your God will have delivered them to you, you shall strike them down unto utter annihilation. You shall not enter into a pact with them, nor shall you show any pity to them
    3: And you shall not associate with them in marriage. You shall not give your daughter to his son, nor accept his daughter for your son
    4: For she will seduce your son, so that he will not follow me, and so that he will instead serve foreign gods. And the fury of the Lord will be enraged, and he will quickly destroy you
    5: So instead, you shall do this to them: overturn their altars, and break their statues, and cut down their sacred groves, and burn up their graven images
    6: For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you so that you would be his particular people out of all the peoples who are upon the earth
    7: It is not because you surpass all the nations in number that the Lord has joined with you and has chosen you, for you are the least numerous of any people
    8: But it is because the Lord has loved you, and has kept his oath, which he swore to your fathers. And he has led you away with a strong hand, and he has redeemed you from the house of servitude, from the hand of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt
    9: And you shall know that the Lord your God himself is a strong and faithful God, preserving his covenant and his mercy for those who love him and those who keep his precepts for a thousand generations
    10: and promptly repaying those who hate him, so as to utterly ruin them, without further delay, quickly rendering to them what they deserve
    11: Therefore, keep the precepts and ceremonies as well as the judgments, which I command to you this day, so that you may do them
    12: If, after you have heard these judgments, you keep and do them, the Lord your God will also keep his covenant with you and the mercy that he swore to your fathers
    13: And he will love you and multiply you. And he will bless the fruit of your womb, and the fruit of your land: your grain as well as your vintage, oil, and herds, and the flocks of your sheep, upon the land about which he swore to your fathers that he would give it to you
    14: Blessed shall you be among all peoples. No one will be barren among you of either gender, as much among men as among your herds
    15: The Lord will take all sickness away from you. And the very grievous infirmities of Egypt, which you have known, he will not bring upon you, but upon your enemies
    16: You shall devour all the peoples, which the Lord your God will deliver to you. Your eye shall not spare them, neither shall you serve their gods, lest they be your ruin
    17: If you say in your heart, ‘These nations are more than I am, so how will I be able to destroy them?
    18: do not be apprehensive. Instead, recall what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and to all the Egyptians
    19: the very great plagues, which your eyes saw, and the signs and wonders, and the powerful hand and outstretched arm, by which the Lord your God led you away. So will he do to all the peoples, whom you dread
    20: Moreover, the Lord your God will also send hornets among them, until he destroys and scatters all who have escaped from you, or who have been able to hide
    21: You shall not fear them, for the Lord your God is in your midst: a great and terrible God
    22: He himself will consume these nations in your sight, a little at a time, by degrees. You will not be able to destroy them all at once. Otherwise, the wild beasts of the earth might increase against you
    23: And so, the Lord your God will present them in your sight, and you shall slay them until they are thoroughly wiped away
    24: And he shall deliver their kings into your hands, and you shall abolish their names from under heaven. No one will be able to withstand you, until you crush them
    25: Their graven images, you shall burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or gold from which they have been made. And you shall not take for yourself anything from these, lest you offend, because this is an abomination to the Lord your God
    26: Neither shall you carry anything of the idol into your house, lest you become accursed, just as it also is. You shall detest it like dung, and you shall abominate it like defilement and filth, because it is an accursed thing.

  Chapter 8.

    1: “All the commandments which I am entrusting to you this day, take care to observe them diligently, so that you may live and be multiplied, and so that, upon entering, you may possess the land, about which the Lord swore to your fathers
    2: And you shall remember the entire journey along which the Lord your God led you, for forty years through the desert, to afflict you, and to test you, and to make known the things that were turning in your soul, whether or not you would keep his commandments
    3: He afflicted you with need, and he gave you Manna as your food, which neither you nor your fathers knew, so as to reveal to you that it is not by bread alone that man lives, but by every word that goes forth from the mouth of God
    4: Your garment, with which you were covered, has by no means decayed due to age, and your foot has not been worn down, even to this fortieth year
    5: so that you would recognize in your heart that, just as a man educates his son, so has the Lord your God educated you
    6: So may you keep the commandments of the Lord your God, and walk in his ways, and fear him
    7: For the Lord your God will lead you into a good land: a land of brooks and waters and fountains, in which deep rivers burst forth from its plains and mountains
    8: a land of crops, barley, and vineyards, in which fig and pomegranate and olive trees spring up, a land of oil and honey
    9: In that place, without any need, you shall eat your bread and enjoy an abundance of all things: where the stones are like iron, and where ore for brass is dug out of its mountains
    10: So then, when you have eaten and been satisfied, you should bless the Lord your God for the excellent land which he has given to you
    11: Be observant and cautious, lest at sometime you may forget the Lord your God, and neglect his commandments, as well as the judgments and ceremonies, which I instruct to you this day
    12: Otherwise, after you have eaten and been satisfied, and have built beautiful houses and have lived in them
    13: and have obtained herds of oxen, and flocks of sheep, and a plentitude of gold and silver and all things
    14: your heart might be lifted up, and you might not remember the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, from the house of servitude
    15: and who was your leader in the great and terrible wilderness, in which there was the serpent with a burning breath, and the scorpion, and the snake of thirst, and no waters at all. He led streams out of the hardest rock
    16: and he nourished you in the wilderness with Manna, which your fathers had not known. And after he had afflicted and tested you, in the very end, he took pity on you
    17: Otherwise, you might say in your heart: ‘My own strength, and the power of my own hand, have brought forth all these things for me.
    18: But remember the Lord your God, that he himself has provided you with strength, so that he may fulfill his covenant, about which he swore to your fathers, just as the present day reveals
    19: But if you forget the Lord your God, so that you follow foreign gods, and serve and adore them: behold, I now foretell to you that you shall utterly perish
    20: Just like the nations, which the Lord destroyed upon your arrival, so shall you also perish, if you have been disobedient to the voice of the Lord your God.

End of day 41.