Day 115:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then Tobias called the Angel to him, whom he indeed considered to be a man, and he said to him: “Brother Azariah, I implore you to listen to my words
    2: If I should give myself to be your servant, I would not be equally worthy of your providence
    3: Even so, I beg you to take with you beasts or even servants, and to go to Gabael in Rages, the city of the Medes, and restore to him his handwritten note, and receive from him the money, and petition him to come to my wedding celebration
    4: For you know that my father numbers the days. And if I delay one day more, his soul will be afflicted
    5: And surely you see how Raguel has obtained my oath, an oath that I am not able to spurn.
    6: Then Raphael borrowed four of the servants of Raguel, and two camels, and he traveled to Rages, the city of the Medes. And upon finding Gabael, he gave him his handwritten note, and he received from him all the money
    7: And he revealed to him, concerning Tobias the son of Tobit, all that had been done. And he made him come with him to the wedding celebration
    8: And when he had entered into the house of Raguel, he discovered Tobias reclining at table. And leaping up, they kissed each other. And Gabael wept, and he blessed God
    9: And he said: “May the God of Israel bless you, for you are the son of a man most noble and just, fearing God and performing almsgiving
    10: And may a blessing be spoken over your wife and over your parents
    11: And may you see your sons, and the sons of your sons, even to the third and fourth generation. And may your offspring be blessed by the God of Israel, who reigns forever and ever.
    12: And when all had said, “Amen,” they approached the feast. But they also celebrated the marriage feast with the fear of the Lord

  Chapter 10.

    1: In truth, when Tobias was delayed because of the marriage celebration, his father Tobit was worried, saying: “Why do you think my son is delayed, or why has he been detained there
    2: Do you think that Gabael has died, and that no one will repay him the money?
    3: And so he began to be exceedingly sad, both he and his wife Anna with him. And they both began to weep together, because their son did not at least return to them on the appointed day
    4: But his mother wept inconsolable tears, and also said: “Woe, woe to me, O my son. Why did we send you to journey far away, you: the light of our eyes, the staff of our old age, the solace of our life, the hope of our posterity
    5: Having all things together as one in you, we ought not to have dismissed you from us.
    6: And Tobit was saying to her: “Be calm, and do not be troubled. Our son is safe. That man, with whom we sent him, is faithful enough.
    7: Yet she was by no means able to be consoled. But, leaping up every day, she looked all round, and traveled around all the ways, by which there seemed any hope that he might return, so that she might possibly see him coming from afar
    8: In truth, Raguel said to his son-in-law, “Remain here, and I will send a message of your health to your father Tobit.
    9: And Tobias said to him, “I know that my father and my mother have now counted the days, and their spirit must be tortured within them.
    10: And when Raguel had repeatedly petitioned Tobias, and he was by no means willing to listen to him, he delivered Sarah to him, and half of all his substance: with men and women servants, with sheep, camels, and cows, and with much money. And he dismissed him away, in safety and gladness, from him
    11: saying: “May the holy Angel of the Lord be with your journey, and may he lead you through unharmed, and may you discover that all is right concerning your parents, and may my eyes see your sons before I die.
    12: And the parents, taking hold of their daughter, kissed her and let her go
    13: admonishing her to honor her father-in-law, to love her husband, to guide the family, to govern the household, and to behave irreproachably herself

  Chapter 11.

    1: And as they were returning, they came through to Haran, which is in the middle of the journey, opposite Nineveh, on the eleventh day
    2: And the Angel said: “Brother Tobias, you know how you left behind your father
    3: And so, if it pleases you, let us go on ahead, and let the family follow after us with a slower step, together with your bride, and with the animals.
    4: And since it pleased him to go on in this way, Raphael said to Tobias, “Take with you from the gall of the fish, for it will be necessary.” And so, Tobias took from its gall, and he went ahead
    5: But Anna sat beside the way every day, on the top of a hill, from where she would be able to see for a long distance
    6: And while she was watching for his arrival from that place, she looked far off, and soon she realized that her son was approaching. And running, she reported it to her husband, saying: “Behold, your son arrives.
    7: And Raphael said to Tobias: “As soon as you enter into your house, immediately adore the Lord your God. And, giving thanks to him, approach your father, and kiss him
    8: And immediately anoint his eyes from this gall of the fish, which you carry with you. For you should know that his eyes will soon be opened, and your father will see the light of heaven, and he will rejoice at the sight of you.
    9: Then the dog, which had been with them in the way, ran ahead, and, arriving like a messenger, he showed his joy by fawning and wagging his tail
    10: And rising up, his blind father began to run, stumbling with his feet. And giving his hand to a servant, he ran on to meet his son
    11: And receiving him, he kissed him, as did his wife, and they both began to weep for joy
    12: And when they had adored God and had given thanks, they sat down together
    13: Then Tobias, taking from the gall of the fish, anointed his father’s eyes
    14: And about half an hour passed, and then a white film began to come out of his eyes, like the membrane of an egg
    15: So, taking hold of it, Tobias pulled it away from his eyes, and immediately he received his sight
    16: And they glorified God: Tobit especially, and his wife, and all those who knew him
    17: And Tobit said, “I bless you, O Lord God of Israel, because you have chastised me, and you have saved me, and behold, I see my son Tobias.
    18: And then, after seven days, Sarah, the wife of his son, and all the family arrived safely, along with the sheep, and the camels, and much money from his wife, but also with that money which he had received from Gabael
    19: And he explained to his parents all the benefits from God, which he had produced all around him, by means of the man who had led him
    20: And then Ahikar and Nadab arrived, the maternal first cousins of Tobias, rejoicing for Tobias, and congratulating with him for all the good things that God had revealed all around him
    21: And for seven days they feasted, and all were rejoicing with great joy

  Chapter 12.

    1: Then Tobit called his son to him, and he said to him, “What are we able to give to this holy man, who accompanied you?
    2: Tobias, answering, said to his father: “Father, what wages shall we give him? And what could be worthy of his benefits
    3: He led me and he brought me back safely. He received the money from Gabael. He caused me to have my wife. And he confined the demon away from her. He caused joy to her parents. Myself, he rescued from being devoured by the fish. As for you, he also caused you to see the light of heaven. And so, we have been filled with all good things through him. What could we possibly give to him that would be worthy of these things
    4: But I implore you, my father, to ask him if he would perhaps deign to take for himself half of all the things that have been brought.
    5: And calling him, the father especially, and the son, they took him aside. And they began to petition him, so that he would deign to accept ownership of one half part of all things that they had brought
    6: Then he said to them privately: “Bless the God of heaven, and confess to him in the sight of all who live, for he has acted in his mercy toward you
    7: For it is good to conceal the secret of a king, just as it is also honorable to reveal and to confess the works of God
    8: Prayer with fasting is good, and almsgiving is better than hiding away gold in storage
    9: For almsgiving delivers from death, and the same is what purges sins and makes one able to find mercy and everlasting life
    10: But those who commit sin and iniquity are enemies to their own soul
    11: Therefore, I reveal the truth to you, and I will not hide the explanation from you
    12: When you prayed with tears, and buried the dead, and left behind your dinner, and hid the dead by day in your house, and buried them by night: I offered your prayer to the Lord
    13: And because you were acceptable to God, it was necessary for you to be tested by trials
    14: And now, the Lord has sent me to cure you, and to free Sarah, your son’s wife, from the demon
    15: For I am the Angel Raphael, one of seven, who stand before the Lord.
    16: And when they had heard these things, they were troubled, and being seized with fear, they fell upon the ground on their face
    17: And the Angel said to them: “Peace be to you. Fear not
    18: For when I was with you, I was there by the will of God. Bless him, and sing to him
    19: Indeed, I seemed to eat and drink with you, but I make use of an invisible food and drink, which cannot be seen by men
    20: Therefore, it is time that I return to him who sent me. But as for you, bless God, and describe all his wonders.
    21: And when he had said these things, he was taken from their sight, and they were not able to see him any longer
    22: Then, lying prostrate for three hours upon their face, they blessed God. And rising up, they described all his wonders

End of day 115.