Day 160:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['97', '98', '99', '100']:

  Chapter 97.

    1: A Psalm of David himself. Sing to the Lord a new song, for he has performed wonders. His right hand has accomplished salvation for him, with his holy arm
    2: The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his justice in the sight of the nations
    3: He has remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God
    4: Sing joyfully to God, all the earth. Sing and exult, and sing psalms
    5: Sing psalms to the Lord with stringed instruments, with strings and the voice of a psalmist
    6: with subtle wind instruments and the voice of woodwinds. Make a joyful noise before the Lord our king
    7: Let the sea be moved and all its fullness, the whole world and all who dwell in it
    8: The rivers will clap their hands, the mountains will exult together
    9: before the presence of the Lord. For he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the whole world with justice, and the peoples with fairness

  Chapter 98.

    1: A Psalm of David himself. The Lord has reigned: let the peoples be angry. He sits upon the cherubim: let the earth be moved
    2: The Lord is great in Zion, and he is high above all peoples
    3: May they confess to your great name, for it is terrible and holy
    4: And the honor of the king loves judgment. You have prepared guidance. You have accomplished judgment and justice in Jacob
    5: Exalt the Lord our God, and adore the footstool of his feet, for it is holy
    6: Moses and Aaron are among his priests, and Samuel is among those who call upon his name. They called upon the Lord, and he heeded them
    7: He spoke to them in the pillar of the cloud. They kept his testimonies and the precept that he gave them
    8: You heeded them, O Lord our God. You were a forgiving God to them, though taking vengeance on all their inventions
    9: Exalt the Lord our God, and adore on his holy mountain. For the Lord our God is holy

  Chapter 99.

    1: A Psalm of Confession
    2: Shout joyfully to God, all the earth. Serve the Lord with rejoicing. Enter into his sight in exultation
    3: Know that the Lord himself is God. He made us, and we ourselves did not. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture
    4: Enter his gates with confession, his courts with hymns, and acknowledge him. Praise his name
    5: For the Lord is sweet, his mercy is in eternity, and his truth is from generation to generation

  Chapter 100.

    1: A Psalm of David himself. I will sing mercy and judgment to you, O Lord. I will sing psalms
    2: And I will have understanding within the immaculate way, when you will draw near to me. I wandered about in the innocence of my heart, in the midst of my house
    3: I will not display any unjust thing before my eyes. I have hated those carrying out betrayals
    4: The perverse heart did not adhere to me. And the malignant, who turned away before me, I would not recognize
    5: The one who secretly detracted his neighbor, this one I pursued. The one with an arrogant eye and an insatiable heart, with that one I would not eat
    6: My eyes looked toward the faithful of the earth, to sit with me. The one walking in the immaculate way, this one ministered to me
    7: He who has acted arrogantly will not dwell in the midst of my house. He who has spoken iniquity was not guided with the sight of my eyes
    8: In the morning, I executed all the sinners of the earth, so that I might scatter all the workers of iniquity from the city of the Lord

End of day 160.