Day 18:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And so, the entire multitude of the sons of Israel, having set out from the desert of Sin in stages, according to the word of the Lord, made camp at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink
    2: And arguing against Moses, they said, “Give us water, so that we may drink.” And Moses answered them: “Why argue against me? For what reason do you tempt the Lord?
    3: And so the people were thirsty in that place, due to the scarcity of water, and they murmured against Moses, saying: “Why did you cause us to go out of Egypt, so as to kill us and our children, as well as our cattle, with thirst?
    4: Then Moses cried out to the Lord, saying: “What shall I do with this people? A little while more and they will stone me.
    5: And the Lord said to Moses: “Go before the people, and take with you some of the elders of Israel. And take in your hand the staff, with which you struck the river, and advance
    6: Lo, I will stand in that place before you, on the rock of Horeb. And you shall strike the rock, and water will go forth from it, so that the people may drink.” Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel
    7: And he called the name of that place ‘Temptation,’ because of the arguing of the sons of Israel, and because they tempted the Lord, saying: “Is the Lord with us, or not?
    8: And Amalek came and fought against Israel at Rephidim
    9: And Moses said to Joshua: “Choose men. And when you go out, fight against Amalek. Tomorrow, I will stand at the top of the hill, holding the staff of God in my hand.
    10: Joshua did as Moses had spoken, and he fought against Amalek. But Moses and Aaron and Hur ascended to the top of the hill
    11: And when Moses lifted up his hands, Israel prevailed. But when he released them a little while, Amalek overcame
    12: Then the hands of Moses became heavy. And so, taking a stone, they placed it beneath him, and he sat on it. Then Aaron and Hur sustained his hands from both sides. And it happened that his hands did not tire until the setting of the sun
    13: And Joshua put to flight Amalek and his people by the edge of the sword
    14: Then the Lord said to Moses: “Write this, as a memorial in a book, and deliver it to the ears of Joshua. For I will wipe away the memory of Amalek from under heaven.
    15: And Moses built an altar. And he called its name, ‘The Lord, my Exaltation.’ For he said
    16: “The hand of the throne of the Lord, and the war of the Lord, will be against Amalek from generation to generation.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And when Jethro, the priest of Midian, the kinsman of Moses, had heard all that God had done for Moses, and for his people Israel, and that the Lord had led Israel away from Egypt
    2: he brought Zipporah, the wife of Moses, whom he was to return to him
    3: and her two sons, of whom one was called Gershom, (for his father said, “I have been a newcomer in a foreign land,”
    4: and the other in truth was Eliezer, (“For the God of my father,” he said, “is my helper, and has rescued me from the sword of Pharaoh.”
    5: And so Jethro, the kinsman of Moses, with his sons and his wife, came to Moses in the desert, where he was encamped next to the mountain of God
    6: And he sent word to Moses, saying: “I, Jethro, your kinsman, have come to you, with your wife, and your two sons with her.
    7: And going out to meet his kinsman, he reverenced and kissed him. And they saluted each other with peaceful words. And when he had arrived at the tent
    8: Moses explained to his kinsman all that the Lord had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians on behalf of Israel, and all the hardships which had befallen them on the journey, and how the Lord had freed them
    9: And Jethro was gladdened over all the good that the Lord had done for Israel, because he had rescued them from the hand of the Egyptians
    10: And he said: “Blessed is the Lord, who has freed his people from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of Pharaoh; he has rescued his people from the hand of Egypt
    11: Now I know that the great Lord is above all gods. This is why they acted arrogantly against them.
    12: And so Jethro, the kinsman of Moses, offered holocausts and sacrifices to God. And Aaron arrived with all the elders of Israel, in order to eat bread with him in the sight of God
    13: Then, the next day, Moses sat down in order to judge the people, and they stood beside Moses from morning, even until evening
    14: And when, of course, his kinsman saw all that he did among the people, he said: “What is this that you do among the people? Why do you sit alone, while all the people stand before you, from morning, even until evening?
    15: And Moses answered him: “The people come to me seeking the verdict of God
    16: And when any kind of dispute occurs among them, they come to me to judge between them, and to reveal the precepts of God and of his laws.
    17: But he said, “This is not good, what you are doing
    18: You will be consumed by foolish efforts, both you and this people who are with you. The task is beyond your strength; you will not be able bear it alone
    19: But listen to my words and counsels, and then God will be with you. Be available to the people in that which pertains to God, so as to refer what they say to him
    20: and to reveal to the people the ceremonies, and the rituals of worship, and the way by which they should progress, and the work that they should do
    21: Then provide, from all of the people, men capable and fearing God, in whom there is truth and who hate avarice, and appoint from them tribunes, and leaders of hundreds, and of fifties, and of tens
    22: who may judge the people at all times. Then, when anything greater will have occurred, they may refer it to you, and let them judge the lesser matters only. And so it may be lighter for you, the burden being divided among others
    23: If you will do this, you will fulfill the orders of God, and you will be able to uphold his precepts. And this entire people will return to their places in peace.
    24: Having heard this, Moses did everything that he had suggested to him
    25: And choosing virtuous men from all of Israel, he appointed them as leaders of the people: tribunes, and leaders of hundreds, and of fifties, and of tens
    26: And they judged the people at all times. But whatever was more serious, they referred to him, and they judged easier matters only
    27: And he dismissed his kinsman, who, turning back, went to his own land

  Chapter 19.

    1: In the third month of the departure of Israel from the land of Egypt, in that day, they arrived in the wilderness of Sinai
    2: Thus, setting out from Raphidim, and going directly to the desert of Sinai, they encamped in the same place, and there Israel pitched their tents away from the region of the mountain
    3: Then Moses ascended to God. And the Lord called to him from the mountain, and he said: “This you shall say to the house of Jacob, and announce to the sons of Israel
    4: ‘You have seen what I have done to the Egyptians, in what way I carried you upon the wings of eagles and how I have taken you for myself
    5: If, therefore, you will hear my voice, and you will keep my covenant, you will be to me a particular possession out of all people. For all the earth is mine
    6: And you will be to me a priestly kingdom and a holy nation.’ These are the words that you will speak to the sons of Israel.
    7: Moses went, and calling together those greater by birth among the people, he set forth all the words which the Lord had commanded
    8: And all the people responded together: “Everything that the Lord has spoken, we shall do.” And when Moses had related the words of the people to the Lord
    9: the Lord said to him: “Soon now, I will come to you in the mist of a cloud, so that the people may hear me speaking to you, and so that they may believe you continuously.” Therefore, Moses reported the words of the people to the Lord
    10: who said to him: “Go to the people, and sanctify them today, and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments
    11: And let them be prepared on the third day. For on the third day, the Lord will descend, in the sight of all the people, over Mount Sinai
    12: And you will establish limits for the people all around, and you will say to them: ‘Take care not to ascend to the mountain, and that you do not touch its parts. All who touch the mountain, shall die a death.
    13: Hands shall not touch him, but he shall be crushed with stones, or he shall be pierced through with darts. Whether it be a beast or a man, he shall not live. For when the trumpet begins to sound, perhaps they might go up toward the mountain.
    14: And Moses came down from the mountain to the people, and he sanctified them. And when they had washed their garments
    15: he said to them, “Be prepared on the third day, and do not draw near to your wives.
    16: And now, the third day arrived and the morning dawned. And behold, thunders began to be heard, and also lightning flashed, and a very dense cloud covered the mountain, and the noise of the trumpet resounded vehemently. And the people who were in the camp were fearful
    17: And when Moses had led them out to meet God, from the place of the camp, they stood at the base of the mountain
    18: Then all of Mount Sinai was smoking. For the Lord had descended over it with fire, and smoke ascended from it, as from a furnace. And the entire mountain was terrible
    19: And the sound of the trumpet gradually increased to be louder, and extended to be longer. Moses was speaking, and God was answering him
    20: And the Lord descended over Mount Sinai, to the very top of the mountain, and he called Moses to its summit. And when he had ascended there
    21: he said to him: “Descend, and call the people to witness, lest they might be willing to transgress the limits, so as to see the Lord, and a very great multitude of them might perish
    22: Likewise, the priests who approach toward the Lord, let them be sanctified, lest he strike them down.
    23: And Moses said to the Lord: “The people are not able to ascend to Mount Sinai. For you testified, and you commanded, saying: ‘Set limits around the mountain, and sanctify it.’ 
    24: And the Lord said to him, “Go, descend. And you shall ascend, and Aaron with you. But let not the priests or the people transgress the limits, nor ascend to the Lord, lest perhaps he may put them to death.
    25: And Moses descended to the people, and he explained everything to them

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the Lord spoke all these words
    2: “I am the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, out of the house of servitude
    3: You shall not have strange gods before me
    4: You shall not make for yourself a graven image, nor a likeness of anything that is in heaven above or on earth below, nor of those things which are in the waters under the earth
    5: You shall not adore them, nor shall you worship them. I am the Lord your God: strong, zealous, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the sons to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me
    6: and showing mercy to thousands of those who love me and keep my precepts
    7: You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. For the Lord will not hold harmless one who takes the name of the Lord his God falsely
    8: Remember that you are to sanctify the day of the Sabbath
    9: For six days, you will work and accomplish all your tasks
    10: But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. You shall not do any work in it: you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, your beast and the newcomer who is within your gates
    11: For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all the things that are in them, and so he rested on the seventh day. For this reason, the Lord has blessed the day of the Sabbath and sanctified it
    12: Honor your father and your mother, so that you may have a long life upon the land, which the Lord your God will give to you
    13: You shall not murder
    14: You shall not commit adultery
    15: You shall not steal
    16: You shall not speak false testimony against your neighbor
    17: You shall not covet the house of your neighbor; neither shall you desire his wife, nor male servant, nor female servant, nor ox, nor donkey, nor anything that is his.
    18: Then all the people considered the voices, and the lights, and the sound of the trumpet, and the smoking mountain. And being terrified and struck with fear, they stood at a distance
    19: saying to Moses: “Speak to us, and we will listen. Let not the Lord speak to us, lest perhaps we may die.
    20: And Moses said to the people: “Do not be afraid. For God came in order to test you, and so that the dread of him might be with you, and you would not sin.
    21: And the people stood far away. But Moses approached toward the mist, in which was God
    22: Thereafter, the Lord said to Moses: “This you shall say to the sons of Israel: You have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven
    23: You shall not make gods of silver, nor shall you make for yourselves gods of gold
    24: You shall make an altar from the earth for me, and you shall offer upon it your holocausts and peace-offerings, your sheep and oxen, in every place where the memory of my name shall be. I will come to you, and I will bless you
    25: And if you make an altar of stone for me, you shall not build it from cut stones; for if you lift up a tool over it, it will be defiled
    26: You shall not ascend by steps to my altar, lest your nakedness be revealed.

End of day 18.