Day 316:

Reading Romans, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: I am speaking the truth in Christ; I am not lying. My conscience offers testimony to me in the Holy Spirit
    2: because the sadness within me is great, and there is a continuous sorrow in my heart
    3: For I was desiring that I myself might be anathemized from Christ, for the sake of my brothers, who are my kinsmen according to the flesh
    4: These are the Israelites, to whom belongs adoption as sons, and the glory and the testament, and the giving and following of the law, and the promises
    5: Theirs are the fathers, and from them, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is over all things, blessed God, for all eternity. Amen
    6: But it is not that the Word of God has perished. For not all those who are Israelites are of Israel
    7: And not all sons are the offspring of Abraham: “For your offspring will be invoked in Isaac.
    8: In other words, those who are the sons of God are not those who are sons of the flesh, but those who are sons of the Promise; these are considered to be the offspring
    9: For the word of promise is this: “I will return at the proper time. And there shall be a son for Sarah.
    10: And she was not alone. For Rebecca also, having conceived by Isaac our father, from one act
    11: when the children had not yet been born, and had not yet done anything good or bad (such that the purpose of God might be based on their choice)
    12: and not because of deeds, but because of a calling, it was said to her: “The elder shall serve the younger.
    13: So also it was written: “I have loved Jacob, but I have hated Esau.
    14: What should we say next? Is there unfairness with God? Let it not be so
    15: For to Moses he says: “I will pity whomever I pity. And I will offer mercy to whomever I will pity.
    16: Therefore, it is not based on those who choose, nor on those who excel, but on God who takes pity
    17: For Scripture says to the Pharaoh: “I have raised you up for this purpose, so that I may reveal my power by you, and so that my name may be announced to all the earth.
    18: Therefore, he takes pity on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills
    19: And so, you would say to me: “Then why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will?
    20: O man, who are you to question God? How can the thing that has been formed say to the One who formed him: “Why have you made me this way?
    21: And does not the potter have the authority over the clay to make, from the same material, indeed, one vessel unto honor, yet truly another unto disgrace
    22: What if God, wanting to reveal his wrath and to make his power known, endured, with much patience, vessels deserving wrath, fit to be destroyed
    23: so that he might reveal the wealth of his glory, within these vessels of mercy, which he has prepared unto glory
    24: And so it is with those of us whom he has also called, not only from among the Jews, but even from among the Gentiles
    25: just as he says in Hosea: “I will call those who were not my people, ‘my people,’ and she who was not beloved, ‘beloved,’ and she who had not obtained mercy, ‘one who has obtained mercy.
    26: And this shall be: in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they shall be called the sons of the living God.
    27: And Isaiah cried out on behalf of Israel: “When the number of the sons of Israel is like the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved
    28: For he shall complete his word, while abbreviating it out of equity. For the Lord shall accomplish a brief word upon the earth.
    29: And it is just as Isaiah predicted: “Unless the Lord of hosts had bequeathed offspring, we would have become like Sodom, and we would have been made similar to Gomorrah.
    30: What should we say next? That the Gentiles who did not follow justice have attained justice, even the justice that is of faith
    31: Yet truly, Israel, though following the law of justice, has not arrived at the law of justice
    32: Why is this? Because they did not seek it from faith, but as if it were from works. For they stumbled over a stumbling block
    33: just as it was written: “Behold, I am placing a stumbling block in Zion, and a rock of scandal. But whoever believes in him shall not be confounded.

  Chapter 10.

    1: Brothers, certainly the will of my heart, and my prayer to God, is for them unto salvation
    2: For I offer testimony to them, that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge
    3: For, being ignorant of the justice of God, and seeking to establish their own justice, they have not subjected themselves to the justice of God
    4: For the end of the law, Christ, is unto justice for all who believe
    5: And Moses wrote, about the justice that is of the law, that the man who will have done justice shall live by justice
    6: But the justice that is of faith speaks in this way: Do not say in your heart: “Who shall ascend into heaven?” (that is, to bring Christ down)
    7: “Or who shall descend into the abyss?” (that is, to call back Christ from the dead)
    8: But what does Scripture say? “The word is near, in your mouth and in your heart.” This is the word of faith, which we are preaching
    9: For if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and if you believe in your heart that God has raised him up from the dead, you shall be saved
    10: For with the heart, we believe unto justice; but with the mouth, confession is unto salvation
    11: For Scripture says: “All those who believe in him shall not be confounded.
    12: For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is over all, richly in all who call upon him
    13: For all those who have called upon the name of the Lord shall be saved
    14: Then in what way will those who have not believed in him call upon him? Or in what way will those who have not heard of him believe in him? And in what way will they hear of him without preaching
    15: And truly, in what way will they preach, unless they have been sent, just as it has been written: “How beautiful are the feet of those who evangelize peace, of those who evangelize what is good!
    16: But not all are obedient to the Gospel. For Isaiah says: “Lord, who has believed our report?
    17: Therefore, faith is from hearing, and hearing is through the Word of Christ
    18: But I say: Have they not heard? For certainly: “Their sound has gone forth throughout all the earth, and their words unto the limits of the whole world.
    19: But I say: Has Israel not known? First, Moses says: “I will lead you into a rivalry with those who are not a nation; in the midst of a foolish nation, I will send you into wrath.
    20: And Isaiah dares to say: “I was discovered by those who were not seeking me. I appeared openly to those who were not asking about me.
    21: Then to Israel he says: “All day long I have stretched out my hands to a people who do not believe and who contradict me.

  Chapter 11.

    1: Therefore, I say: Has God driven away his people? Let it not be so! For I, too, am an Israelite of the offspring of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin
    2: God has not driven away his people, whom he foreknew. And do you not know what Scripture says in Elijah, how he calls upon God against Israel
    3: “Lord, they have slain your Prophets. They have overturned your altars. And I alone remain, and they are seeking my life.
    4: But what is the Divine response to him? “I have retained for myself seven thousand men, who have not bent their knees before Baal.
    5: Therefore, in the same way, again in this time, there is a remnant that has been saved in accord with the choice of grace
    6: And if it is by grace, then it is not now by works; otherwise grace is no longer free
    7: What is next? What Israel was seeking, he has not obtained. But the elect have obtained it. And truly, these others have been blinded
    8: just as it was written: “God has given them a spirit of reluctance: eyes that do not perceive, and ears that do not hear, even until this very day.
    9: And David says: “Let their table become like a snare, and a deception, and a scandal, and a retribution for them
    10: Let their eyes be obscured, so that they may not see, and so that they may bow down their backs always.
    11: Therefore, I say: Have they stumbled in such a way that they should fall? Let it not be so! Instead, by their offense, salvation is with the Gentiles, so that they may be a rival to them
    12: Now if their offense is the riches of the world, and if their diminution is the riches of the Gentiles, how much more is their fullness
    13: For I say to you Gentiles: Certainly, as long as I am an Apostle to the Gentiles, I will honor my ministry
    14: in such a way that I might provoke to rivalry those who are my own flesh, and so that I may save some of them
    15: For if their loss is for the reconciliation of the world, what could their return be for, except life out of death
    16: For if the first-fruit has been sanctified, so also has the whole. And if the root is holy, so also are the branches
    17: And if some of the branches are broken, and if you, being a wild olive branch, are grafted on to them, and you become a partaker of the root and of the fatness of the olive tree
    18: do not glorify yourself above the branches. For though you glory, you do not support the root, but the root supports you
    19: Therefore, you would say: The branches were broken off, so that I might be grafted on
    20: Well enough. They were broken off because of unbelief. But you stand on faith. So do not choose to savor what is exalted, but instead be afraid
    21: For if God has not spared the natural branches, perhaps also he might not spare you
    22: So then, notice the goodness and the severity of God. Certainly, toward those who have fallen, there is severity; but toward you, there is the goodness of God, if you remain in goodness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off
    23: Moreover, if they do not remain in unbelief, they will be grafted on. For God is able to graft them on again
    24: So if you have been cut off from the wild olive tree, which is natural to you, and, contrary to nature, you are grafted on to the good olive tree, how much more shall those who are the natural branches be grafted on to their own olive tree
    25: For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery (lest you seem wise only to yourselves) that a certain blindness has occurred in Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has arrived
    26: And in this way, all of Israel may be saved, just as it was written: “From Zion shall arrive he who delivers, and he shall turn impiety away from Jacob
    27: And this will be my covenant for them, when I will take away their sins.
    28: Certainly, according to the Gospel, they are enemies for your sake. But according to the election, they are most beloved for the sake of the fathers
    29: For the gifts and the call of God are without regret
    30: And just as you also, in times past, did not believe in God, but now you have obtained mercy because of their unbelief
    31: so also have these now not believed, for your mercy, so that they might obtain mercy also
    32: For God has enclosed everyone in unbelief, so that he may have mercy on everyone
    33: Oh, the depths of the richness of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments, and how unsearchable are his ways
    34: For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor
    35: Or who first gave to him, so that repayment would be owed
    36: For from him, and through him, and in him are all things. To him is glory, for all eternity. Amen

  Chapter 12.

    1: And so, I beg you, brothers, by the mercy of God, that you offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, with the subservience of your mind
    2: And do not choose to be conformed to this age, but instead choose to be reformed in the newness of your mind, so that you may demonstrate what is the will of God: what is good, and what is well-pleasing, and what is perfect
    3: For I say, through the grace that has been given to me, to all who are among you: Taste no more than it is necessary to taste, but taste unto sobriety and just as God has distributed a share of the faith to each one
    4: For just as, within one body, we have many parts, though all the parts do not have the same role
    5: so also we, being many, are one body in Christ, and each one is a part, the one of the other
    6: And we each have different gifts, according to the grace that has been given to us: whether prophecy, in agreement with the reasonableness of faith
    7: or ministry, in ministering; or he who teaches, in doctrine
    8: he who exhorts, in exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who governs, in solicitude; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness
    9: Let love be without falseness: hating evil, clinging to what is good
    10: loving one another with fraternal charity, surpassing one another in honor
    11: in solicitude, not lazy; in spirit, fervent; serving the Lord
    12: in hope, rejoicing; in tribulation, enduring; in prayer, ever-willing
    13: in the difficulties of the saints, sharing; in hospitality, attentive
    14: Bless those who are persecuting you: bless, and do not curse
    15: Rejoice with those who are rejoicing. Weep with those who are weeping
    16: Be of the same mind toward one another: not savoring what is exalted, but consenting in humility. Do not choose to seem wise to yourself
    17: Render to no one harm for harm. Provide good things, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of all men
    18: If it is possible, in so far as you are able, be at peace with all men
    19: Do not defend yourselves, dearest ones. Instead, step aside from wrath. For it is written: “Vengeance is mine. I shall give retribution, says the Lord.
    20: So if an enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in doing so, you will heap burning coals upon his head
    21: Do not allow evil to prevail, instead prevail over evil by means of goodness

End of day 316.