Day 9:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['33', '34', '35', '36']:

  Chapter 33.

    1: Then Jacob, lifting up his eyes, saw Esau arriving, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the sons of Leah and Rachel, and of both the handmaids
    2: And he placed the two handmaids and their children at the beginning. Truly, Leah and her sons were in the second place. Then Rachel and Joseph were last
    3: And advancing, he reverenced prostrate on the ground seven times, until his brother approached
    4: And so Esau ran to meet his brother, and he embraced him. And drawing him by his neck and kissing him, he wept
    5: And lifting up his eyes, he saw the women and their little ones, and he said: “What do these want for themselves?” and “Are they related to you?” He responded, “These are the little ones that God has given as a gift to me, your servant.
    6: Then the handmaids and their sons approached and bowed down
    7: Likewise Leah, with her sons, came near. And when they had reverenced similarly, last of all, Joseph and Rachel reverenced
    8: And Esau said, “What are these companies that I have been meeting?” He responded, “So may I find favor before my lord.
    9: But he said, “I have plenty, my brother; let these be for yourself.
    10: And Jacob said: “I beg you, let it not be so. But if I have found favor in your eyes, receive a small present from my hands. For I have looked upon your face as I would look upon the countenance of God. Be gracious to me
    11: and take the blessing which I have brought to you, and which God, who bestows all things, has given as a gift to me.” Accepting it reluctantly, at the insistence of his brother
    12: he said, “Let us go on together, and I will accompany you on your journey.
    13: And Jacob said: “My lord, you know that I have with me tender little ones, and sheep, and cows with young. If I cause these to labor too much in walking, all the flocks will die in one day
    14: May it please my lord to go before his servant. And I will follow gradually in his steps, as much as I see my little ones to be able, until I arrive to my lord in Seir.
    15: Esau responded, “I beg you, that at least some of the people who are with me may remain to accompany you on the way.” But he said, “There is no need. I have need of one thing only: to find favor in your sight, my lord.
    16: And so Esau returned that day, by the way that he had arrived, to Seir
    17: And Jacob went to Succoth, where, having built a house and pitched tents, he called the name of that place Succoth, that is, ‘Tents.
    18: And he crossed over to Salem, a city of the Shechemites, which is in the land of Canaan, after he returned from Mesopotamia of Syria. And he lived near the town
    19: And he bought the part of the field in which he had pitched his tents from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for one hundred lambs
    20: And erecting an altar there, he invoked upon it the most strong God of Israel

  Chapter 34.

    1: Then Dinah, the daughter of Leah, went out to see the women of that region
    2: And when Shechem, the son of Hamor the Hivite, the leader of that land, had seen her, he fell in love with her. And so he seized her and slept with her, overwhelming the virgin by force
    3: And his soul was closely bound to her, and, since she was sorrowful, he soothed her with flattery
    4: And going on to Hamor, his father, he said, “Obtain this girl for me as a mate.
    5: But when Jacob had heard this, since his sons were absent and he was occupied in pasturing the cattle, he remained silent until they came back
    6: Then, when Hamor, the father of Shechem, had gone out to speak to Jacob
    7: behold, his sons arrived from the field. And hearing what had happened, they were very angry, because he had done a filthy thing in Israel and, in violating a daughter of Jacob, had perpetrated an unlawful act
    8: And so Hamor spoke to them: “The soul of my son Shechem has become attached to your daughter. Give her to him as a wife
    9: And let us celebrate marriages with one with another. Give us your daughters, and receive our daughters
    10: And live with us. The land is in your power: cultivate, trade, and possess it.
    11: And Shechem even said to her father and to her brothers: “May I find favor in your sight, and whatever you will appoint, I will give
    12: Increase the dowry, and request gifts, and I will freely bestow what you will ask. Only give me this girl as a wife.
    13: The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father with deceit, being enraged at the rape of their sister
    14: “We are not able to do what you ask, nor to give our sister to an uncircumcised man. For us, this is unlawful and abominable
    15: But we may succeed in this, so as to be allied with you, if you are willing to become like us, and if all the male sex among you will be circumcised
    16: Then we will mutually give and receive your daughters as well as ours; and we will live with you, and we will become one people
    17: But if you will not be circumcised, we will take our daughter and withdraw.
    18: Their offer pleased Hamor and his son Shechem
    19: Neither did the young man cause any delay; in fact he immediately fulfilled what was requested. For he loved the girl very much, and he was well-known throughout his father’s house
    20: And entering at the gate of the city, they spoke to the people
    21: “These men are peaceful, and they want to live among us. Let them trade in the land and cultivate it, for, being spacious and broad, it is in need of cultivation. We will receive their daughters as wives, and we will give them ours
    22: There is one thing that prevents so great a good: whether we will circumcise our males, imitating the ritual of their nation
    23: And their substance, and cattle, and all that they possess, will be ours, if only we will acquiesce to this, and so, in living together, will form one people.
    24: And they all agreed to circumcise every one of the males
    25: And behold, on the third day, when the pain of the wound was greatest, two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, the brothers of Dinah, boldly entered the city with swords. And they put to death all of the males
    26: They killed Hamor and Shechem together, taking their sister Dinah from the house of Shechem
    27: And when they had departed, the other sons of Jacob rushed over the slain, and they plundered the city in vengeance for the rape
    28: Taking their sheep, and herds, and donkeys, and laying waste to everything else that was in their houses and in their fields
    29: they also took their little ones and their wives captive
    30: When they had boldly completed these acts, Jacob said to Simeon and Levi: “You have troubled me, and you have made me hateful to the Canaanites and the Perizzites, the inhabitants of this land. We are few. They, gathering themselves together, may strike me down, and then both I and my house will be wiped away.
    31: They responded, “Should they abuse our sister like a prostitute?

  Chapter 35.

    1: About this time, God said to Jacob, “Arise and go up to Bethel, and live there, and make an altar to God, who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau.
    2: In truth, Jacob, having called together all his house, said: “Cast away the foreign gods that are in your midst and be cleansed, and also change your garments
    3: Arise, and let us go up to Bethel, so that we may make an altar there to God, who heeded me in the day of my tribulation, and who accompanied me on my journey.
    4: Therefore, they gave him all the foreign gods which they had, and the earrings which were in their ears. And then he buried them under the terebinth tree, which is beyond the city of Shechem
    5: And when they had set out, the terror of God invaded all the surrounding cities, and they dared not pursue them as they withdrew
    6: And so, Jacob arrived at Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, also named Bethel: he and all the people with him
    7: And he built an altar there, and he called the name of that place, ‘House of God.’ For there God appeared to him when he fled from his brother
    8: About the same time, Deborah, the nurse of Rebekah, died, and she was buried at the base of Bethel, under an oak tree. And the name of that place was called, ‘Oak of Weeping.
    9: Then God appeared again to Jacob, after he returned from Mesopotamia of Syria, and he blessed him
    10: saying: “You will no longer be called Jacob, for your name shall be Israel.” And he called him Israel
    11: and he said to him: “I am Almighty God: increase and multiply. Tribes and peoples of nations will be from you, and kings will go forth from your loins
    12: And the land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will give to you, and to your offspring after you.
    13: And he withdrew from him
    14: In truth, he set up a monument of stone, in the place where God had spoken to him, pouring out libations over it, and pouring oil
    15: and he called the name of that place, ‘Bethel.
    16: Then, departing from there, he arrived in springtime at the land that leads to Ephrath. And there, when Rachel was giving birth
    17: because it was a difficult birth, she began to be in danger. And the midwife said to her, “Do not be afraid, for you will have this son also.
    18: Then, when her life was departing because of the pain, and death was now imminent, she called the name of her son Benoni, that is, the son of my pain. Yet truly, his father called him Benjamin, that is, the son of the right hand
    19: And so Rachel died, and she was buried in the way that leads to Ephrath: this place is Bethlehem
    20: And Jacob erected a monument over her sepulcher. This is the monument to Rachel’s tomb, even to the present day
    21: Departing from there, he pitched his tent beyond the Tower of the Flock
    22: And when he was living in that region, Reuben went out, and he slept with Bilhah the concubine of his father, which was not such a small matter as to be hidden from him. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve
    23: The sons of Leah: Reuben the first born, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun
    24: The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin
    25: The sons of Bilhah, handmaid of Rachel: Dan and Naphtali
    26: The sons of Zilpah, handmaid of Leah: Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Mesopotamia of Syria
    27: And then he went to his father Isaac in Mamre, the city of Arba: this place is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned
    28: And the days of Isaac were completed: one hundred and eighty years
    29: And being consumed by old age, he died. And he was placed with his people, being old and full of days. And his sons, Esau and Jacob, buried him

  Chapter 36.

    1: Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom
    2: Esau took wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite
    3: and Basemath, the daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebaioth
    4: Then Adah bore Eliphaz. Basemath conceived Reuel
    5: Oholibamah conceived Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan
    6: Then Esau took his wives, and sons, and daughters, and every soul of his house, and his substance, and cattle, and whatever he was able to obtain in the land of Canaan, and he went into another region, withdrawing from his brother Jacob
    7: For they were very wealthy and were not able to live together. Neither was the land of their sojourn able to sustain them, because of the multitude of their flocks
    8: And Esau lived at mount Seir: he is Edom
    9: So these are the generations of Esau, the father of Edom, at mount Seir
    10: and these are the names of his sons: Eliphaz the son of Adah, the wife of Esau, likewise Reuel, the son of Basemath, his wife
    11: And Eliphaz had sons: Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenez
    12: Now Timna was the concubine of Eliphaz, the son of Esau. And she bore him Amalek. These are the sons of Adah, the wife of Esau
    13: And the sons of Reuel were Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. These are the sons of Basemath, the wife of Esau
    14: Likewise, these were the sons of Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, the wife of Esau, whom she bore to him: Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah
    15: These were leaders of the sons of Esau, the sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn of Esau: leader Teman, leader Omar, leader Zepho, leader Kenez
    16: leader Korah, leader Gatam, leader Amalek. These are the sons of Eliphaz, in the land of Edom, and these the sons of Adah
    17: Likewise, these are the sons of Reuel, the son of Esau: leader Nahath, leader Zerah, leader Shammah, leader Mizzah. And these were the leaders of Reuel, in the land of Edom. These are the sons of Basemath, the wife of Esau
    18: Now these are the sons of Oholibamah, the wife of Esau: leader Jeush, leader Jalam, leader Korah. These were the leaders of Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah and the wife of Esau
    19: These are the sons of Esau, and these were their leaders: this is Edom
    20: These are the sons of Seir, the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah
    21: and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. These were the leaders of the Horites, the sons of Seir, in the land of Edom
    22: Now Lotan produced sons: Hori and Heman. But the sister of Lotan was Timna
    23: And these are the sons of Shobal: Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, and Shepho, and Onam
    24: And these are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. This is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, when he was pasturing the donkeys of his father Zibeon
    25: And he had a son Dishon, and a daughter Oholibamah
    26: And these are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, and Esheban, and Ithran, and Cheran
    27: Likewise, these are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan
    28: Then Dishan had sons: Uz and Aran
    29: These were the leaders of the Horites: leader Lotan, leader Shobal, leader Zibeon, leader Anah
    30: leader Dishon, leader Ezer, leader Disan. These were leaders of the Horites who ruled in the land of Seir
    31: Now before the sons of Israel had a king, the kings who ruled in the land of Edom were these
    32: Bela the son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah
    33: Then Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah from Bozrah, reigned in his place
    34: And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place
    35: Likewise, this one having died, Hadad the son of Bedad reigned in his place. He struck down Midian in the region of Moab. And the name of his city was Avith
    36: And when Adad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place
    37: Likewise, this one being dead, Shaul of the river Rehoboth, reigned in his place
    38: And when he also had passed away, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, succeeded to the kingdom
    39: Likewise, this one being dead, Hadar reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Pau. And his wife was called Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab
    40: Therefore, these were the names of the leaders of Esau, by their families, and places, and in their vocabulary: leader Timna, leader Alvah, leader Jetheth
    41: leader Oholibamah, leader Elah, leader Pinon
    42: leader Kanez, leader Teman, leader Mibzar
    43: leader Magdiel, leader Iram. These were the leaders of Edom living in the land of their rule: this is Esau, the father of Idumea

End of day 9.