Day 301:

Reading John, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and God was the Word
    2: He was with God in the beginning
    3: All things were made through Him, and nothing that was made was made without Him
    4: Life was in Him, and Life was the light of men
    5: And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it
    6: There was a man sent by God, whose name was John
    7: He arrived as a witness to offer testimony about the Light, so that all would believe through him
    8: He was not the Light, but he was to offer testimony about the Light
    9: The true Light, which illuminates every man, was coming into this world
    10: He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not recognize him
    11: He went to his own, and his own did not accept him
    12: Yet whoever did accept him, those who believed in his name, he gave them the power to become the sons of God
    13: These are born, not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God
    14: And the Word became flesh, and he lived among us, and we saw his glory, glory like that of an only-begotten son from the Father, full of grace and truth
    15: John offers testimony about him, and he cries out, saying: “This is the one about whom I said: ‘He who is to come after me, has been placed ahead of me, because he existed before me.’ 
    16: And from his fullness, we all have received, even grace for grace
    17: For the law was given though Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ
    18: No one ever saw God; the only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he himself has described him
    19: And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to him, so that they might ask him, “Who are you?
    20: And he confessed it and did not deny it; and what he confessed was: “I am not the Christ.
    21: And they questioned him: “Then what are you? Are you Elijah?” And he said, “I am not.” “Are you the Prophet?” And he answered, “No.
    22: Therefore, they said to him: “Who are you, so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?
    23: He said, “I am a voice crying out in the desert, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’ just as the prophet Isaiah said.
    24: And some of those who had been sent were from among the Pharisees
    25: And they questioned him and said to him, “Then why do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, and not Elijah, and not the Prophet?
    26: John answered them by saying: “I baptize with water. But in your midst stands one, whom you do not know
    27: The same is he who is to come after me, who has been placed ahead of me, the laces of whose shoes I am not worthy to loosen.
    28: These things happened in Bethania, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing
    29: On the next day, John saw Jesus coming toward him, and so he said: “Behold, the Lamb of God. Behold, he who takes away the sin of the world
    30: This is the one about whom I said, ‘After me arrives a man, who has been placed ahead of me, because he existed before me.
    31: And I did not know him. Yet it is for this reason that I come baptizing with water: so that he may be made manifest in Israel.
    32: And John offered testimony, saying: “For I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove; and he remained upon him
    33: And I did not know him. But he who sent me to baptize with water said to me: ‘He over whom you will see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him, this is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.
    34: And I saw, and I gave testimony: that this one is the Son of God.
    35: The next day again, John was standing with two of his disciples
    36: And catching sight of Jesus walking, he said, “Behold, the Lamb of God.
    37: And two disciples were listening to him speaking. And they followed Jesus
    38: Then Jesus, turning around and seeing them following him, said to them, “What are you seeking?” And they said to him, “Rabbi (which means in translation, Teacher), where do you live?
    39: He said to them, “Come and see.” They went and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. Now it was about the tenth hour
    40: And Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two who had heard about him from John and had followed him
    41: First, he found his brother Simon, and he said to him, “We have found the Messiah,” (which is translated as the Christ)
    42: And he led him to Jesus. And Jesus, gazing at him, said: “You are Simon, son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas,” (which is translated as Peter)
    43: On the next day, he wanted to go into Galilee, and he found Philip. And Jesus said to him, “Follow me.
    44: Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter
    45: Philip found Nathanael, and he said to him, “We have found the one about whom Moses wrote in the Law and the Prophets: Jesus, the son of Joseph, from Nazareth.
    46: And Nathanael said to him, “Can anything good be from Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “Come and see.
    47: Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him, and he said about him, “Behold, an Israelite in whom truly there is no deceit.
    48: Nathanael said to him, “From where do you know me?” Jesus responded and said to him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.
    49: Nathanael answered him and said: “Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel.
    50: Jesus responded and said to him: “Because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree, you believe. Greater things than these, you will see.
    51: And he said to him, “Amen, amen, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the Angels of God ascending and descending over the Son of man.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And on the third day, a wedding was held in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there
    2: Now Jesus was also invited to the wedding, with his disciples
    3: And when the wine was failing, the mother of Jesus said to him, “They have no wine.
    4: And Jesus said to her: “What is that to me and to you, woman? My hour has not yet arrived.
    5: His mother said to the servants, “Do whatever he tells you.
    6: Now in that place, there were six stone water jars, for the purification ritual of the Jews, containing two or three measures each
    7: Jesus said to them, “Fill the water jars with water.” And they filled them to the very top
    8: And Jesus said to them, “Now draw from it, and carry it to the chief steward of the feast.” And they took it to him
    9: Then, when the chief steward had tasted the water made into wine, since he did not know where it was from, for only the servants who had drawn the water knew, the chief steward called the groom
    10: and he said to him: “Every man offers the good wine first, and then, when they have become inebriated, he offers what is worse. But you have kept the good wine until now.
    11: This was the beginning of the signs that Jesus accomplished in Cana of Galilee, and it manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him
    12: After this, he descended to Capernaum, with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, but they did not remain there for many days
    13: And the Passover of the Jews was near, and so Jesus ascended to Jerusalem
    14: And he found, sitting in the temple, sellers of oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers
    15: And when he had made something like a whip out of little cords, he drove them all out of the temple, including the sheep and the oxen. And he poured out the brass coins of the moneychangers, and he overturned their tables
    16: And to those who were selling doves, he said: “Take these things out of here, and do not make my Father’s house into a house of commerce.
    17: And truly, his disciples were reminded that it is written: “Zeal for your house consumes me.
    18: Then the Jews responded and said to him, “What sign can you show to us, that you may do these things?
    19: Jesus responded and said to them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
    20: Then the Jews said, “This temple has been built up over forty-six years, and you will raise it up in three days?
    21: Yet he was speaking about the Temple of his body
    22: Therefore, when he had resurrected from the dead, his disciples were reminded that he had said this, and they believed in the Scriptures and in the word that Jesus had spoken
    23: Now while he was at Jerusalem during the Passover, on the day of the feast, many trusted in his name, seeing his signs that he was accomplishing
    24: But Jesus did not trust himself to them, because he himself had knowledge of all persons
    25: and because he had no need of anyone to offer testimony about a man. For he knew what was within a man

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now there was a man among the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a leader of the Jews
    2: He went to Jesus at night, and he said to him: “Rabbi, we know that you have arrived as a teacher from God. For no one would be able to accomplish these signs, which you accomplish, unless God were with him.
    3: Jesus responded and said to him, “Amen, amen, I say to you, unless one has been reborn anew, he is not able to see the kingdom of God.
    4: Nicodemus said to him: “How could a man be born when he is old? Surely, he cannot enter a second time into his mother’s womb to be reborn?
    5: Jesus responded: “Amen, amen, I say to you, unless one has been reborn by water and the Holy Spirit, he is not able to enter into the kingdom of God
    6: What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the Spirit is spirit
    7: You should not be amazed that I said to you: You must be born anew
    8: The Spirit inspires where he wills. And you hear his voice, but you do not know where he comes from, or where he is going. So it is with all who are born of the Spirit.
    9: Nicodemus responded and said to him, “How are these things able to be accomplished?
    10: Jesus responded and said to him: “You are a teacher in Israel, and you are ignorant of these things
    11: Amen, amen, I say to you, that we speak about what we know, and we testify about what we have seen. But you do not accept our testimony
    12: If I have spoken to you about earthly things, and you have not believed, then how will you believe, if I will speak to you about heavenly things
    13: And no one has ascended to heaven, except the one who descended from heaven: the Son of man who is in heaven
    14: And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the desert, so also must the Son of man be lifted up
    15: so that whoever believes in him may not perish, but may have eternal life
    16: For God so loved the world that he gave his only-begotten Son, so that all who believe in him may not perish, but may have eternal life
    17: For God did not send his Son into the world, in order to judge the world, but in order that the world may be saved through him
    18: Whoever believes in him is not judged. But whoever does not believe is already judged, because he does not believe in the name of the only-begotten Son of God
    19: And this is the judgment: that the Light has come into the world, and men loved darkness more than light. For their works were evil
    20: For everyone who does evil hates the Light and does not go toward the Light, so that his works may not be corrected
    21: But whoever acts in truth goes toward the Light, so that his works may be manifested, because they have been accomplished in God.
    22: After these things, Jesus and his disciples went into the land of Judea. And he was living there with them and baptizing
    23: Now John was also baptizing, at Aenon near Salim, because there was much water in that place. And they were arriving and being baptized
    24: For John had not yet been cast into prison
    25: Then a dispute occurred between the disciples of John and the Jews, about purification
    26: And they went to John and said to him: “Rabbi, the one who was with you across the Jordan, about whom you offered testimony: behold, he is baptizing and everyone is going to him.
    27: John responded and said: “A man is not able to receive anything, unless it has been given to him from heaven
    28: You yourselves offer testimony for me that I said, ‘I am not the Christ,’ but that I have been sent before him
    29: He who holds the bride is the groom. But the friend of the groom, who stands and listens to Him, rejoices joyfully at the voice of the groom. And so, this, my joy, has been fulfilled
    30: He must increase, while I must decrease
    31: He who comes from above, is above everything. He who is from below, is of the earth, and he speaks about the earth. He who comes from heaven is above everything
    32: And what he has seen and heard, about this he testifies. And no one accepts his testimony
    33: Whoever has accepted his testimony has certified that God is truthful
    34: For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God. For God does not give the Spirit by measure
    35: The Father loves the Son, and he has given everything into his hand
    36: Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. But whoever is unbelieving toward the Son shall not see life; instead the wrath of God remains upon him.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And so, when Jesus realized that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made more disciples and baptized more than John
    2: (though Jesus himself was not baptizing, but only his disciples
    3: he left behind Judea, and he traveled again to Galilee
    4: Now he needed to cross through Samaria
    5: Therefore, he went into a city of Samaria which is called Sychar, near the estate which Jacob gave to his son Joseph
    6: And Jacob’s well was there. And so Jesus, being tired from the journey, was sitting in a certain way on the well. It was about the sixth hour
    7: A woman of Samaria arrived to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give me to drink.
    8: For his disciples had gone into the city in order to buy food
    9: And so, that Samaritan woman said to him, “How is it that you, being a Jew, are requesting a drink from me, though I am a Samaritan woman?” For the Jews do not associate with the Samaritans
    10: Jesus responded and said to her: “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who is saying to you, ‘Give me to drink,’ perhaps you would have made a request of him, and he would have given you living water.
    11: The woman said to him: “Lord, you do not have anything with which to draw water, and the well is deep. From where, then, do you have living water
    12: Surely, you are not greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and who drank from it, with his sons and his cattle?
    13: Jesus responded and said to her: “All who drink from this water will thirst again. But whoever shall drink from the water that I will give to him will not thirst for eternity
    14: Instead, the water that I will give to him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into eternal life.
    15: The woman said to him, “Lord, give me this water, so that I may not thirst and may not come here to draw water.
    16: Jesus said to her, “Go, call your husband, and return here.
    17: The woman responded and said, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her: “You have spoken well, in saying, ‘I have no husband.
    18: For you have had five husbands, but he whom you have now is not your husband. You have spoken this in truth.
    19: The woman said to him: “Lord, I see that you are a Prophet
    20: Our fathers worshipped on this mountain, but you say that Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship.
    21: Jesus said to her: “Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you shall worship the Father, neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem
    22: You worship what you do not know; we worship what we do know. For salvation is from the Jews
    23: But the hour is coming, and it is now, when true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father also seeks such persons who may worship him
    24: God is Spirit. And so, those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth.
    25: The woman said to him: “I know that the Messiah is coming (who is called the Christ). And then, when he will have arrived, he will announce everything to us.
    26: Jesus said to her: “I am he, the one who is speaking with you.
    27: And then his disciples arrived. And they wondered that he was speaking with the woman. Yet no one said: “What are you seeking?” or, “Why are you talking with her?
    28: And so the woman left behind her water jar and went into the city. And she said to the men there
    29: “Come and see a man who has told me all the things that I have done. Is he not the Christ?
    30: Therefore, they went out of the city and came to him
    31: Meanwhile, the disciples petitioned him, saying, “Rabbi, eat.
    32: But he said to them, “I have food to eat which you do not know.
    33: Therefore, the disciples said to one another, “Could someone have brought him something to eat?
    34: Jesus said to them: “My food is to do the will of the One who sent me, so that I may perfect his work
    35: Do you not say, ‘There are still four months, and then the harvest arrives?’ Behold, I say to you: Lift up your eyes and look at the countryside; for it is already ripe for the harvest
    36: For he who reaps, receives wages and gathers fruit unto eternal life, so that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together
    37: For in this the word is true: that it is one who sows, and it is another who reaps
    38: I have sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labors.
    39: Now many of the Samaritans from that city believed in him, because of the word of the woman who was offering testimony: “For he told me all the things that I have done.
    40: Therefore, when the Samaritans had come to him, they petitioned him to lodge there. And he lodged there for two days
    41: And many more believed in him, because of his own word
    42: And they said to the woman: “Now we believe, not because of your speech, but because we ourselves have heard him, and so we know that he is truly the Savior of the world.
    43: Then, after two days, he departed from there, and he traveled into Galilee
    44: For Jesus himself offered testimony that a Prophet has no honor in his own country
    45: And so, when he had arrived in Galilee, the Galileans received him, because they had seen all that he had done at Jerusalem, in the day of the feast. For they also went to the feast day
    46: Then he went again into Cana of Galilee, where he made water into wine. And there was a certain ruler, whose son was sick at Capernaum
    47: Since he had heard that Jesus came to Galilee from Judea, he sent to him and begged him to come down and heal his son. For he was beginning to die
    48: Therefore, Jesus said to him, “Unless you have seen signs and wonders, you do not believe.
    49: The ruler said to him, “Lord, come down before my son dies.
    50: Jesus said to him, “Go, your son lives.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and so he went away
    51: Then, as he was going down, his servants met him. And they reported to him, saying that his son was alive
    52: Therefore, he asked them at which hour he had become better. And they said to him, “Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him.
    53: Then the father realized that it was at the same hour that Jesus said to him, “Your son lives.” And both he and his entire household believed
    54: This next sign was the second that Jesus accomplished, after he had arrived in Galilee from Judea

End of day 301.