Day 340:

Reading Hebrews, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In many places and in many ways, in past times, God spoke to the fathers through the Prophets
    2: lastly, in these days, he has spoken to us through the Son, whom he appointed as the heir of all things, and through whom he made the world
    3: And since the Son is the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, and is carrying all things by the Word of his virtue, thereby accomplishing a purging of sins, he sits at the right hand of Majesty on high
    4: And having been made so much better than the Angels, he has inherited a name so much greater than theirs
    5: For to which of the Angels has he ever said: “You are my Son; today have I begotten you?” Or again: “I will be a Father to him, and he shall be a Son to me?
    6: And again, when he brings the only-begotten Son into the world, he says: “And let all the Angels of God adore him.
    7: And about the Angels, certainly, he says: “He makes his Angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
    8: But about the Son: “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of equity
    9: You have loved justice, and you have hated iniquity. Because of this, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of exultation, above your companions.
    10: And: “In the beginning, O Lord, you founded the earth. And the heavens are the work of your hands
    11: These shall pass away, but you will remain. And all will grow old like a garment
    12: And you will change them like a cloak, and they shall be changed. Yet you are ever the same, and your years will not diminish.
    13: But to which of the Angels has he ever said: “Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool?
    14: Are they not all spirits of ministration, sent to minister for the sake of those who shall receive the inheritance of salvation

  Chapter 2.

    1: For this reason, it is necessary for us to observe more thoroughly the things that we have heard, lest we let them slip away
    2: For if a word that was spoken through the Angels has been made firm, and every transgression and disobedience has received the recompense of a just retribution
    3: in what way might we escape, if we neglect such a great salvation? For though initially it had begun to be described by the Lord, it was confirmed among us by those who heard him
    4: with God testifying to it by signs and wonders, and by various miracles, and by the pouring out of the Holy Spirit, in accord with his own will
    5: For God did not subject the future world, about which we are speaking, to the Angels
    6: But someone, in a certain place, has testified, saying: “What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the Son of man, that you visit him
    7: You have reduced him to a little less than the Angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, and you have set him over the works of your hands
    8: You have subjected all things under his feet.” For in as much as he has subjected all things to him, he has left nothing not subject to him. But in the present time, we do not yet perceive that all things have been made subject to him
    9: Yet we understand that Jesus, who was reduced to a little less than the Angels, was crowned with glory and honor because of his Passion and death, in order that, by the grace of God, he might taste death for all
    10: For it was fitting for him, because of whom and through whom all things exist, who had led many children into glory, to complete the authorship of their salvation through his Passion
    11: For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, are all from One. For this reason, he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying
    12: “I will announce your name to my brothers. In the midst of the Church, I will praise you.
    13: And again: “I will be faithful in him.” And again: “Behold, I and my children, whom God has given to me.
    14: Therefore, because children have a common flesh and blood, he himself also, in like manner, has shared in the same, so that through death, he might destroy him who held the dominion of death, that is, the devil
    15: and so that he might free those who, through the fear of death, had been condemned to servitude throughout their entire life
    16: For at no time did he take hold of the Angels, but instead he took hold of the offspring of Abraham
    17: Therefore, it is fitting for him to be made similar to his brothers in all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful High Priest before God, in order that he might bring forgiveness to the offenses of the people
    18: For in as much as he himself has suffered and has been tempted, he also is able to assist those who are tempted

  Chapter 3.

    1: Therefore, holy brothers, sharers in the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession: Jesus
    2: He is faithful to the One who made him, just as Moses also was, with his entire house
    3: For this Jesus was considered worthy of greater glory than Moses, so much so that the house which he has built holds a greater honor than the former one
    4: For every house is built by someone, but God is the One who has created all things
    5: And certainly Moses was faithful, with his entire house, like any servant, as a testimony to those things that would soon be said
    6: Yet truly, Christ is like a Son in his own house. We are that house, if we firmly retain the faithfulness and the glory of hope, even unto the end
    7: Because of this, it is just as the Holy Spirit says: “If today you hear his voice
    8: harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, the very day of temptation, in the desert
    9: where your fathers tested me, even though they had seen and examined my works for forty years
    10: For this reason, I was enraged against this generation, and I said: They always wander astray in heart. For they have not known my ways
    11: So it is as I swore in my wrath: They shall not enter into my rest!
    12: Be cautious, brothers, lest perhaps there may be, in any of you, an evil heart of unbelief, turning aside from the living God
    13: Instead, exhort one another every day, while it is still called ‘today,’ so that none of you may become hardened through the falseness of sin
    14: For we have been made participants in Christ. This is only so, if we firmly retain the beginning of his substance, even unto the end
    15: For it has been said: “If today you hear his voice, harden not your hearts, in the same manner as in the former provocation.
    16: For some of those listening did provoke him. But not all of these had set forth from Egypt through Moses
    17: So against whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not those who had sinned, whose dead bodies lay prostrate in the desert
    18: But to whom did he swear that they would not enter into his rest, except to those who were incredulous
    19: And so, we perceive that they were not able to enter because of unbelief

  Chapter 4.

    1: Therefore, we should be afraid, lest the promise of entering into his rest may be relinquished, and some of you may be judged to be lacking
    2: For this was announced to us in a similar manner as to them. But the mere hearing of the word did not benefit them, since it was not joined together with a faith in those things that they heard
    3: For we who have believed shall enter into rest, in the same manner as he said: “So it is as I have sworn in my wrath: They shall not enter into my rest!” And certainly, this is when the works from the foundation of the world have been finished
    4: For, in a certain place, he spoke about the seventh day in this manner: “And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
    5: And in this place again: “They shall not enter into my rest!
    6: Therefore, this is because certain ones remain who are to enter into it, and those to whom it was announced first did not enter into it, because of unbelief
    7: Again, he defines a certain day, after so much time, saying in David, “Today,” just as it was stated above, “If today you hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
    8: For if Jesus had offered them rest, he would never have spoken, afterward, about another day
    9: And so, there remains a Sabbath of rest for the people of God
    10: For whoever has entered into his rest, the same has also rested from his works, just as God did from his
    11: Therefore, let us hasten to enter into that rest, so that no one may fall into the same example of unbelief
    12: For the Word of God is living and effective: more piercing than any two-edged sword, reaching to the division even between the soul and the spirit, even between the joints and the marrow, and so it discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart
    13: And there is no created thing that is invisible to his sight. For all things are naked and open to the eyes of him, about whom we are speaking
    14: Therefore, since we have a great High Priest, who has pierced the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, we should hold to our confession
    15: For we do not have a high priest who is unable to have compassion on our infirmities, but rather one who was tempted in all things, just as we are, yet without sin
    16: Therefore, let us go forth with confidence toward the throne of grace, so that we may obtain mercy, and find grace, in a helpful time

End of day 340.