Day 220:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['61', '62', '63', '64']:

  Chapter 61.

    1: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, for the Lord has anointed me. He has sent me to bring good news to the meek, so as to heal the contrite of heart, to preach leniency to captives and release to the confined
    2: and so to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vindication of our God: to console all who are mourning
    3: to take up the mourners of Zion and to give them a crown in place of ashes, an oil of joy in place of mourning, a cloak of praise in place of a spirit of grief. And there, they shall be called the strong ones of justice, the planting of the Lord, unto glorification
    4: And they will rebuild the deserted places of past ages, and they will raise up the ruins of antiquity, and they will repair the desolate cities, which had been dissipated for generation after generation
    5: And foreigners will stand up and will pasture your flocks. And the sons of sojourners will be your farmers and the workers of your vineyards
    6: But you yourselves will be called the priests of the Lord. It will be said to you, “You are the ministers of our God.” You will eat from the strength of the Gentiles, and you will pride yourself on their glory
    7: Instead of your double confusion and shame, they will praise their portion. Because of this, they will possess double in their land. Everlasting joy will be for them
    8: For I am the Lord, who loves judgment and who holds hatred for robbery within a burnt offering. And I will turn their work into truth, and I will forge a perpetual covenant with them
    9: And they will know their offspring among the nations, and their progeny in the midst of the peoples. All who see them will recognize them: that these are the offspring whom the Lord has blessed
    10: I will rejoice greatly in the Lord, and my soul will exult in my God. For he has clothed me with the vestments of salvation, and he has wrapped me in the clothing of justice, like a groom arrayed with a crown, and like a bride adorned with her jewels
    11: For as the earth brings forth its seedlings and the garden produces its seeds, so will the Lord God bring forth justice and praise in the sight of all the nations

  Chapter 62.

    1: For the sake of Zion, I will not be silent, and for the sake of Jerusalem, I will not rest, until her Just One advances in splendor, and her Savior is kindled like a lamp
    2: And the Gentiles will see your Just One, and all the kings will see your Renown One. And you shall be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord will choose
    3: And you shall be a crown of glory in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God
    4: You will no longer be called Forsaken. And your land will no longer be called Desolate. Instead, you shall be called My Will within it, and your land shall be called Inhabited. For the Lord has been well pleased with you, and your land will be inhabited
    5: For the young man will live with the virgin, and your children will live with you. And the groom will rejoice over the bride, and your God will rejoice over you
    6: Upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I have stationed watchmen all day and all night unceasingly; they will not be silent. You who are mindful of the Lord, you should not be silent
    7: and you should not grant silence to him, until he makes firm and establishes Jerusalem as a praise upon the earth
    8: The Lord has sworn with his right hand and with the arm of his strength: “Certainly, I will no longer permit your grain to be the food of your enemies. And the sons of foreigners will not drink your wine, for which you have labored.
    9: For those who gather it will eat it, and they will praise the Lord. And those who bring it together will drink it in my holy courts
    10: Pass through, pass through the gates! Prepare a way for the people! Make the road level, remove the stones, and lift up a sign for the people
    11: Behold, the Lord has caused it to be heard to the ends of the earth. Tell the daughter of Zion: “Behold, your Saviour approaches! Behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him.
    12: And they will call them: The holy people, the redeemed of the Lord. Then you will be called: A city sought, and not forsaken

  Chapter 63.

    1: Who is this, who arrives from Edom with dyed garments from Bozrah? This is the Handsome One in his robe, advancing by the fullness of his strength. It is I, the Speaker of Justice, and I am the Fighter for Salvation
    2: So then, why is your garment red, and why are your vestments like the ones of those who tread the winepress
    3: I have trod the winepress alone. And among the nations, there is no man beside me. I have trampled on them in my fury, and I have tread them down in my wrath. And so, their blood has been sprinkled on my vestments, and I have stained all my garments
    4: For the day of vengeance is in my heart. The year of my redemption has arrived
    5: I gazed around, and there was no one to assist. I sought, and there was no one who would help. And so, my own arm has saved for me, and my own wrath itself has assisted me
    6: And I have trampled the peoples in my fury, and I have inebriated them with my indignation, and I have torn down their strength to the ground
    7: I will remember the compassion of the Lord, the praise of the Lord over all that the Lord has bestowed on us, and over the multitude of his good things for the house of Israel, which he has granted to them according to his leniency, and according to the multitude of his mercies
    8: And he said: “Yet truly, these are my people, sons who have not been disowned.” And he became their Savior
    9: Throughout all their tribulation, he was not troubled, for the Angel of his presence saved them. With his love, and by his leniency, he has redeemed them, and he has carried them and lifted them up, throughout all the days of the ages
    10: But they themselves provoked to wrath and afflicted his Holy Spirit, and he was turned to be for them like an enemy, and he himself went to war against them
    11: And he remembered the days of ancient times, the days of Moses and his people. Where is he who led them out of the sea, with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who placed his Holy Spirit in their midst
    12: He led Moses by the right hand, with the arm of his majesty. He split the waters before them, in order to make an everlasting name for himself
    13: He led them through the abyss, like a horse which does not stumble, in the desert
    14: Like an animal who descends to an open field, the Spirit of the Lord was their guide. Thus did you lead your people, in order to make a glorious name for yourself
    15: Gaze down from heaven, and behold from your holy habitation and from your glory. Where is your zeal, and your strength, the fullness of your heart and of your compassion? They have held themselves back from me
    16: For you are our Father, and Abraham has not known us, and Israel has been ignorant of us. You are our Father, O Lord our Redeemer. Your name is beyond all ages
    17: Why have you allowed us to stray from your ways, O Lord? Why have you hardened our heart, so that we do not fear you? Return, for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your inheritance
    18: They have possessed your holy people as if it were nothing. Our enemies have trampled your sanctuary
    19: We have become as we were in the beginning, when you did not rule over us, and when we were not called by your name

  Chapter 64.

    1: I wish that you would rend the heavens, and then descend! The mountains would flow away before your face
    2: They would melt, as if thoroughly burned by fire. The waters would burn with fire, so that your name might be made known to your enemies, so that the nations would be stirred up before your face
    3: When you will perform miracles, we will not be able to withstand them. You descended, and the mountains flowed away before your presence
    4: From ages past, they have not heard it, and they have not perceived it with the ears. Apart from you, O God, the eye has not seen what you have prepared for those who await you
    5: You have met with those who rejoice in doing justice. By your ways, they will remember you. Behold, you have been angry, for we have sinned. In this, we have continued, but we will be saved
    6: And we have all become like the unclean. And all our justices are like a rag of menstruation. And we have all fallen away, like a leaf. And our iniquities have carried us away, like the wind
    7: There is no one who calls upon your name, who rises up and holds fast to you. You have concealed your face from us, and you have crushed us with the hand of our own iniquity
    8: And now, O Lord, you are our Father, yet truly, we are clay. And you are our Maker, and we are all the works of your hands
    9: Do not be so angry, O Lord, and no longer call to mind our iniquity. Behold, consider that we are all your people
    10: The city of your sanctuary has become a desert. Zion has become a desert. Jerusalem is desolate
    11: The house of our sanctification and of our glory, where our fathers praised you, has been completely consumed by fire, and all our admirable things have been turned into ruins
    12: Should you restrain yourself, O Lord, concerning these things? Should you remain silent, and afflict us vehemently

End of day 220.