Day 303:

Reading John, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And Jesus, while passing by, saw a man blind from birth
    2: And his disciples asked him, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind?
    3: Jesus responded: “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but it was so that the works of God would be made manifest in him
    4: I must work the works of him who sent me, while it is day: the night is coming, when no one is able to work
    5: As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
    6: When he had said these things, he spat on the ground, and he made clay from the spittle, and he smeared the clay over his eyes
    7: And he said to him: “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which is translated as: one who has been sent). Therefore, he went away and washed, and he returned, seeing
    8: And so the bystanders and those who had seen him before, when he was a beggar, said, “Is this not the one who was sitting and begging?” Some said, “This is he.
    9: But others said, “Certainly not, but he is similar to him.” Yet truly, he himself said, “I am he.
    10: Therefore, they said to him, “How were your eyes opened?
    11: He responded: “That man who is called Jesus made clay, and he anointed my eyes and said to me, ‘Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.’ And I went, and I washed, and I see.
    12: And they said to him, “Where is he?” He said, “I do not know.
    13: They brought the one who had been blind to the Pharisees
    14: Now it was the Sabbath, when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes
    15: Therefore, again the Pharisees questioned him as to how he had seen. And he said to them, “He placed clay over my eyes, and I washed, and I see.
    16: And so certain Pharisees said: “This man, who does not keep the Sabbath, is not from God.” But others said, “How could a sinful man accomplish these signs?” And there was a schism among them
    17: Therefore, they spoke again to the blind man, “What do you say about him who opened your eyes?” Then he said, “He is a Prophet.
    18: Therefore, the Jews did not believe, about him, that he had been blind and had seen, until they called the parents of him who had seen
    19: And they questioned them, saying: “Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? Then how is it that he now sees?
    20: His parents responded to them and said: “We know that this is our son and that he was born blind
    21: But how it is that he now sees, we do not know. And who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him. He is old enough. Let him speak for himself.
    22: His parents said these things because they were afraid of the Jews. For the Jews had already conspired, so that if anyone were to confess him to be the Christ, he would be expelled from the synagogue
    23: It was for this reason that his parents said: “He is old enough. Ask him.
    24: Therefore, they again called the man who had been blind, and they said to him: “Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner.
    25: And so he said to them: “If he is a sinner, I do not know it. One thing I do know, that although I was blind, now I see.
    26: Then they said to him: “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?
    27: He answered them: “I have already told you, and you heard it. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples?
    28: Therefore, they cursed him and said: “You be his disciple. But we are disciples of Moses
    29: We know that God spoke to Moses. But this man, we do not know where he is from.
    30: The man responded and said to them: “Now in this is a wonder: that you do not know where he is from, and yet he has opened my eyes
    31: And we know that God does not hear sinners. But if anyone is a worshipper of God and does his will, then he heeds him
    32: From ancient times, it has not been heard that anyone has opened the eyes of someone born blind
    33: Unless this man were of God, he would not be able to do any such thing.
    34: They responded and said to him, “You were born entirely in sins, and you would teach us?” And they cast him out
    35: Jesus heard that they had cast him out. And when he had found him, he said to him, “Do you believe in the Son of God?
    36: He responded and said, “Who is he, Lord, so that I may believe in him?
    37: And Jesus said to him, “You have both seen him, and he is the one who is speaking with you.
    38: And he said, “I believe, Lord.” And falling prostrate, he worshipped him
    39: And Jesus said, “I came into this world in judgment, so that those who do not see, may see; and so that those who see, may become blind.
    40: And certain Pharisees, who were with him, heard this, and they said to him, “Are we also blind?
    41: Jesus said to them: “If you were blind, you would not have sin. Yet now you say, ‘We see.’ So your sin persists.

  Chapter 10.

    1: “Amen, amen, I say to you, he who does not enter through the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbs up by another way, he is a thief and a robber
    2: But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep
    3: To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and he leads them out
    4: And when he has sent out his sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice
    5: But they do not follow a stranger; instead they flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.
    6: Jesus spoke this proverb to them. But they did not understand what he was saying to them
    7: Therefore, Jesus spoke to them again: “Amen, amen, I say to you, that I am the door of the sheep
    8: All others, as many as have come, are thieves and robbers, and the sheep did not listen to them
    9: I am the door. If anyone has entered through me, he will be saved. And he shall go in and go out, and he shall find pastures
    10: The thief does not come, except so that he may steal and slaughter and destroy. I have come so that they may have life, and have it more abundantly
    11: I am the good Shepherd. The good Shepherd gives his life for his sheep
    12: But the hired hand, and whoever is not a shepherd, to whom the sheep do not belong, he sees the wolf approaching, and he departs from the sheep and flees. And the wolf ravages and scatters the sheep
    13: And the hired hand flees, because he is a hired hand and there is no concern for the sheep within him
    14: I am the good Shepherd, and I know my own, and my own know me
    15: just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for my sheep
    16: And I have other sheep that are not of this fold, and I must lead them. They shall hear my voice, and there shall be one sheepfold and one shepherd
    17: For this reason, the Father loves me: because I lay down my life, so that I may take it up again
    18: No one takes it away from me. Instead, I lay it down of my own accord. And I have the power to lay it down. And I have the power to take it up again. This is the commandment that I have received from my Father.
    19: A dissension occurred again among the Jews because of these words
    20: Then many of them were saying: “He has a demon or he is insane. Why do you listen him?
    21: Others were saying: “These are not the words of someone who has a demon. How would a demon be able to open the eyes of the blind?
    22: Now it was the Feast of the Dedication at Jerusalem, and it was winter
    23: And Jesus was walking in the temple, in the portico of Solomon
    24: And so the Jews surrounded him and said to him: “How long will you hold our souls in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.
    25: Jesus answered them: “I speak to you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in the name of my Father, these offer testimony about me
    26: But you do not believe, because you are not of my sheep
    27: My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me
    28: And I give them eternal life, and they shall not perish, for eternity. And no one shall seize them from my hand
    29: What my Father gave to me is greater than all, and no one is able to seize from the hand of my Father
    30: I and the Father are one.
    31: Therefore, the Jews took up stones, in order to stone him
    32: Jesus answered them: “I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me?
    33: The Jews answered him: “We do not stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy and because, though you are a man, you make yourself God.
    34: Jesus responded to them: “Is it not written in your law, ‘I said: you are gods?
    35: If he called those to whom the word of God was given gods, and Scripture cannot be broken
    36: why do you say, about him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You have blasphemed,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God?
    37: If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe in me
    38: But if I do them, even if you are not willing to believe in me, believe the works, so that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father.
    39: Therefore, they sought to apprehend him, but he escaped from their hands
    40: And he went again across the Jordan, to that place where John first was baptizing. And he lodged there
    41: And many went out to him. And they were saying: “Indeed, John accomplished no signs
    42: But all things whatsoever that John said about this man were true.” And many believed in him

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now there was a certain sick man, Lazarus of Bethania, from the town of Mary and her sister Martha
    2: And Mary was the one who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair; her brother Lazarus was sick
    3: Therefore, his sisters sent to him, saying: “Lord, behold, he whom you love is sick.
    4: Then, upon hearing this, Jesus said to them: “This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it.
    5: Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister Mary, and Lazarus
    6: Even so, after he heard that he was sick, he then still remained in the same place for two days
    7: Then, after these things, he said to his disciples, “Let us go into Judea again.
    8: The disciples said to him: “Rabbi, the Jews are even now seeking to stone you. And would you go there again?
    9: Jesus responded: “Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the daylight, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world
    10: But if he walks in the nighttime, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.
    11: He said these things, and after this, he said to them: “Lazarus our friend is sleeping. But I am going, so that I may awaken him from sleep.
    12: And so his disciples said, “Lord, if he is sleeping, he shall be healthy.
    13: But Jesus had spoken about his death. Yet they thought that he spoke about the repose of sleep
    14: Therefore, Jesus then said to them plainly, “Lazarus has died
    15: And I am glad for your sake that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him.
    16: And then Thomas, who is called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, “Let us go, too, so that we may die with him.
    17: And so Jesus went. And he found that he had already been in the tomb for four days
    18: (Now Bethania was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia.
    19: And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, so as to console them over their brother
    20: Therefore, Martha, when she heard that Jesus was arriving, went out to meet him. But Mary was sitting at home
    21: And then Martha said to Jesus: “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died
    22: But even now, I know that whatever you will request from God, God will give to you.
    23: Jesus said to her, “Your brother shall rise again.
    24: Martha said to him, “I know that he shall rise again, at the resurrection on the last day.
    25: Jesus said to her: “I am the Resurrection and the Life. Whoever believes in me, even though he has died, he shall live
    26: And everyone who lives and believes in me shall not die for eternity. Do you believe this?
    27: She said to him: “Certainly, Lord. I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God, who has come into this world.
    28: And when she had said these things, she went and called her sister Mary quietly, saying, “The Teacher is here, and he is calling you.
    29: When she heard this, she rose up quickly and went to him
    30: For Jesus had not yet arrived in the town. But he was still at that place where Martha had met him
    31: Therefore, the Jews who were with her in the house and who were consoling her, when they had seen that Mary rose up quickly and went out, they followed her, saying, “She is going to the tomb, so that she may weep there.
    32: Therefore, when Mary had arrived to where Jesus was, seeing him, she fell down at his feet, and she said to him. “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
    33: And then, when Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had arrived with her weeping, he groaned in spirit and became troubled
    34: And he said, “Where have you laid him?” They said to him, “Lord, come and see.
    35: And Jesus wept
    36: Therefore, the Jews said, “See how much he loved him!
    37: But some of them said, “Would not he who opened the eyes of one born blind have been able to cause this man not to die?
    38: Therefore, Jesus, again groaning from within himself, went to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone had been placed over it
    39: Jesus said, “Take away the stone.” Martha, the sister of him who had died, said to him, “Lord, by now it will smell, for this is the fourth day.
    40: Jesus said to her, “Did I not say to you that if you believe, you shall see the glory of God?
    41: Therefore, they took away the stone. Then, lifting up his eyes, Jesus said: “Father, I give thanks to you because you have heard me
    42: And I know that you always hear me, but I have said this for the sake of the people who are standing nearby, so that they may believe that you have sent me.
    43: When he had said these things, he cried in a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out.
    44: And immediately, he who had been dead went forth, bound at the feet and hands with winding bands. And his face was bound with a separate cloth. Jesus said to them, “Release him and let him go.
    45: Therefore, many of the Jews, who had come to Mary and Martha, and who had seen the things that Jesus did, believed in him
    46: But certain ones among them went to the Pharisees and told them the things that Jesus had done
    47: And so, the high priests and the Pharisees gathered a council, and they were saying: “What can we do? For this man accomplishes many signs
    48: If we leave him alone, in this way all will believe in him. And then the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation.
    49: Then one of them, named Caiaphas, since he was the high priest that year, said to them: “You do not understand anything
    50: Nor do you realize that it is expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the entire nation should not perish.
    51: Yet he did not say this from himself, but since he was the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation
    52: And not only for the nation, but in order to gather together as one the children of God who have been dispersed
    53: Therefore, from that day, they planned to put him to death
    54: And so, Jesus no longer walked in public with the Jews. But he went into a region near the desert, to a city which is called Ephraim. And he lodged there with his disciples
    55: Now the Passover of the Jews was near. And many from the countryside ascended to Jerusalem before the Passover, so that they might sanctify themselves
    56: Therefore, they were seeking Jesus. And they conferred with one another, while standing in the temple: “What do you think? Will he come to the feast day?
    57: And the high priests and Pharisees had given an order, so that if anyone would know where he may be, he should reveal it, so that they might apprehend him

  Chapter 12.

    1: Then six days before the Passover, Jesus went to Bethania, where Lazarus had died, whom Jesus raised up
    2: And they made a dinner for him there. And Martha was ministering. And truly, Lazarus was one of those who were sitting at table with him
    3: And then Mary took twelve ounces of pure spikenard ointment, very precious, and she anointed the feet of Jesus, and she wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment
    4: Then one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was soon to betray him, said
    5: “Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the needy?
    6: Now he said this, not out of concern for the needy, but because he was a thief and, since he held the purse, he used to carry what was put into it
    7: But Jesus said: “Permit her, so that she may keep it against the day of my burial
    8: For the poor, you have with you always. But me, you do always not have.
    9: Now a great multitude of the Jews knew that he was in that place, and so they came, not so much because of Jesus, but so that they might see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead
    10: And the leaders of the priests planned to put Lazarus to death also
    11: For many of the Jews, because of him, were going away and were believing in Jesus
    12: Then, on the next day, the great crowd that had come to the feast day, when they had heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem
    13: took branches of palm trees, and they went ahead to meet him. And they were crying out: “Hosanna! Blessed is he who arrives in the name of the Lord, the king of Israel!
    14: And Jesus found a small donkey, and he sat upon it, just as it is written
    15: “Do not be afraid, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king arrives, sitting on the colt of a donkey.
    16: At first, his disciples did not realize these things. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and that these things happened to him
    17: And so the crowd that had been with him, when he called Lazarus from the tomb and raised him from the dead, offered testimony
    18: Because of this, too, the crowd went out to meet him. For they heard that he had accomplished this sign
    19: Therefore, the Pharisees said among themselves: “Do you see that we are accomplishing nothing? Behold, the entire world has gone after him.
    20: Now there were certain Gentiles among those who went up so that they might worship on the feast day
    21: Therefore, these approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and they petitioned him, saying: “Sir, we want to see Jesus.
    22: Philip went and told Andrew. Next, Andrew and Philip told Jesus
    23: But Jesus answered them by saying: “The hour arrives when the Son of man shall be glorified
    24: Amen, amen, I say to you, unless the grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies
    25: it remains alone. But if it dies, it yields much fruit. Whoever loves his life, will lose it. And whoever hates his life in this world, preserves it unto eternal life
    26: If anyone serves me, let him follow me. And where I am, there too my minister shall be. If anyone has served me, my Father will honor him
    27: Now my soul is troubled. And what should I say? Father, save me from this hour? But it is for this reason that I came to this hour
    28: Father, glorify your name!” And then a voice came from heaven, “I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again.
    29: Therefore, the crowd, which was standing near and had heard it, said that it was like thunder. Others were saying, “An Angel was speaking with him.
    30: Jesus responded and said: “This voice came, not for my sake, but for your sakes
    31: Now is the judgment of the world. Now will the prince of this world be cast out
    32: And when I have been lifted up from the earth, I will draw all things to myself.
    33: (Now he said this, signifying what kind of death he would die.
    34: The crowd answered him: “We have heard, from the law, that the Christ remains forever. And so how can you say, ‘The Son of man must be lifted up?’ Who is this Son of man?
    35: Therefore, Jesus said to them: “For a brief time, the Light is among you. Walk while you have the Light, so that the darkness may not overtake you. But whoever walks in darkness does not know where is he going
    36: While you have the Light, believe in the Light, so that you may be sons of the Light.” Jesus spoke these things, and then he went away and hid himself from them
    37: And although he had done such great signs in their presence, they did not believe in him
    38: so that the word of the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled, which says: “Lord, who has believed in our hearing? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
    39: Because of this, they were not able to believe, for Isaiah said again
    40: “He has blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, so that they may not see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and be converted: and then I would heal them.
    41: These things Isaiah said, when he saw his glory and was speaking about him
    42: Yet truly, many of the leaders also believed in him. But because of the Pharisees, they did not confess him, so that they would not be cast out of the synagogue
    43: For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God
    44: But Jesus cried out and said: “Whoever believes in me, does not believe in me, but in him who sent me
    45: And whoever sees me, sees him who sent me
    46: I have arrived as a light to the world, so that all who believe in me might not remain in darkness
    47: And if anyone has heard my words and not kept them, I do not judge him. For I did not come so that I may judge the world, but so that I may save the world
    48: Whoever despises me and does not accept my words has one who judges him. The word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him on the last day
    49: For I am not speaking from myself, but from the Father who sent me. He gave a commandment to me as to what I should say and how I should speak
    50: And I know that his commandment is eternal life. Therefore, the things that I speak, just as the Father has said to me, so also do I speak.

End of day 303.