Day 145:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: A Psalm of David, in commemoration of the Sabbath
    2: O Lord, do not rebuke me in your fury, nor chastise me in your wrath
    3: For your arrows have been driven into me, and your hand has been confirmed over me
    4: There is no health in my flesh before the face of your wrath. There is no peace for my bones before the face of my sins
    5: For my iniquities have walked over my head, and they have been like a heavy burden weighing upon me
    6: My sores have putrefied and been corrupted before the face of my foolishness
    7: I have become miserable, and I have been bent down, even to the end. I have walked with contrition all day long
    8: For my loins have been filled with illusions, and there is no health in my flesh
    9: I have been afflicted and greatly humbled. I bellowed from the groaning of my heart
    10: O Lord, all my desire is before you, and my groaning before you has not been hidden
    11: My heart has been disturbed. My strength has abandoned me, and the light of my eyes has abandoned me, and it is not with me
    12: My friends and my neighbors have drawn near and stood against me. And those who were next to me stood far apart. And those who sought my soul used violence
    13: And those who sought evil accusations against me were speaking emptiness. And they practiced deceitfulness all day long
    14: But, like someone deaf, I did not hear. And I was like someone mute, not opening his mouth
    15: And I became like a man who does not hear, and who has no reproofs in his mouth
    16: For in you, Lord, I have hoped. You will listen to me, O Lord my God
    17: For I said, “Lest at any time, my enemies might rejoice over me,” and, “While my feet are being shaken, they have spoken great things against me.
    18: For I have been prepared for scourges, and my sorrow is ever before me
    19: For I will announce my iniquity, and I will think about my sin
    20: But my enemies live, and they have been stronger than me. And those who have wrongfully hated me have been multiplied
    21: Those who render evil for good have dragged me down, because I followed goodness
    22: Do not forsake me, O Lord my God. Do not depart from me
    23: Be attentive to my help, O Lord, the God of my salvation

  Chapter 38.

    1: Unto the end. For Jeduthun himself. A Canticle of David
    2: I said, “I will keep to my ways, so that I will not offend with my tongue.” I posted a guard at my mouth, when a sinner took up a position against me
    3: I was silenced and humbled, and I was quiet before good things, and my sorrow was renewed
    4: My heart grew hot within me, and, during my meditation, a fire would flare up
    5: I spoke with my tongue, “O Lord, make me know my end, and what the number of my days will be, so that I may know what is lacking to me.
    6: Behold, you have made my days measurable, and, before you, my substance is as nothing. Yet truly, all things are vanity: every living man
    7: So then, truly man passes by like an image; even so, he is disquieted in vain. He stores up, and he knows not for whom he will gather these things
    8: And now, what is it that awaits me? Is it not the Lord? And my substance is with you
    9: Rescue me from all my iniquities. You have handed me over as a reproach to the foolish
    10: I was silenced, and I did not open my mouth, because it was you who acted
    11: Remove your scourges from me
    12: I fall short at corrections from the strength of your hand. For you have chastised man for iniquity. And you have made his soul shrink away like a spider. Nevertheless, it is in vain that any man be disquieted
    13: O Lord, heed my prayer and my supplication. Pay attention to my tears. Do not be silent. For I am a newcomer with you, and a sojourner, just as all my fathers were
    14: Forgive me, so that I may be refreshed, before I will go forth and be no more

  Chapter 39.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David himself
    2: I have waited expectantly for the Lord, and he was attentive to me
    3: And he heard my prayers and he led me out of the pit of misery and the quagmire. And he stationed my feet upon a rock, and he directed my steps
    4: And he sent a new canticle into my mouth, a song to our God. Many will see, and they will fear; and they will hope in the Lord
    5: Blessed is the man whose hope is in the name of the Lord, and who has no respect for vanities and absurd falsehoods
    6: You have accomplished your many wonders, O Lord my God, and there is no one similar to you in your thoughts. I have announced and I have spoken: they are multiplied beyond number
    7: Sacrifice and oblation, you did not want. But you have perfected ears for me. Holocaust and sin offering, you did not require
    8: Then I said, “Behold, I draw near.” At the head of the book, it has been written of me
    9: that I should do your will. My God, I have willed it. And your law is in the midst of my heart
    10: I have announced your justice in a great Church: behold, I will not restrain my lips. O Lord, you have known it
    11: I have not concealed your justice within my heart. I have spoken your truth and your salvation. I have not concealed your mercy and your truth from a great assembly
    12: O Lord, do not take your tender mercies far from me. Your mercy and your truth ever sustain me
    13: For evils without number have surrounded me. My iniquities have taken hold of me, and I was not able to see. They have been multiplied beyond the hairs of my head. And my heart has forsaken me
    14: Be pleased, O Lord, to rescue me. Look down, O Lord, to help me
    15: Let them together be confounded and awed, who seek after my soul to steal it away. Let them be turned back and be in awe, who wish evils upon me
    16: Let them bear their confusion all at once, who say to me, “Well, well.
    17: Let all who seek you exult and rejoice over you. And let those who love your salvation always say, “May the Lord be magnified.
    18: But I am a beggar and poor. The Lord has been concerned about me. You are my helper and my protector. My God, do not delay

  Chapter 40.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David himself
    2: Blessed is he who shows understanding toward the needy and the poor. The Lord will deliver him in the evil day
    3: May the Lord preserve him and give him life, and make him blessed upon the earth. And may he not hand him over to the will of his adversaries
    4: May the Lord bring him help on his bed of sorrow. In his infirmity, you have changed his entire covering
    5: I said, “O Lord, be merciful to me. Heal my soul, because I have sinned against you.
    6: My enemies have spoken evils against me. When will he die and his name perish
    7: And when he came in to see me, he was speaking emptiness. His heart gathered iniquity to itself. He went outside, and he was speaking in the same way
    8: All my enemies were whispering against me. They were thinking up evils against me
    9: They established an unjust word against me. Will he that sleeps no longer rise again
    10: For even the man of my peace, in whom I hoped, who ate my bread, has greatly supplanted me
    11: But you, O Lord, have mercy on me, and raise me up again. And I will requite them
    12: By this, I knew that you preferred me: because my adversary will not rejoice over me
    13: But you have sustained me, because of my innocence, and you have confirmed me in your sight in eternity
    14: Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for all generations and even forever. Amen. Amen

End of day 145.