Day 176:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Wisdom has built a house for herself. She has hewn seven columns
    2: She has immolated her victims. She has mixed her wine and set forth her table
    3: She has sent her maids to call out to the tower and to the fortified walls of the city
    4: “If anyone is little, let him come to me.” And to the unwise, she has said
    5: “Approach. Eat my bread, and drink the wine that I have mixed for you
    6: Leave behind childishness. And live and walk by the ways of prudence.
    7: Whoever teaches a mocker causes injury to himself. And whoever argues with the impious produces a blemish on himself
    8: Do not be willing to argue with a mocker, lest he hate you. Dispute with the wise, and he will love you
    9: Present an opportunity to the wise, and wisdom shall be added to him. Teach the just, and he will hurry to receive it
    10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of holiness is prudence
    11: For by me, your days will be multiplied and years of life will be added to you
    12: If you would be wise, you will be so for yourself. But if you would be one who ridicules, you alone shall carry the evil
    13: A foolish and loud woman, who is full of enticements and who knows nothing at all
    14: sat at the entrance of her house on a seat, in a high place of the city
    15: so as to call to those who were passing by the way and continuing on their journey
    16: “Whoever is little, let him turn aside to me.” And to the frenzied, she said
    17: “Stolen waters are more soothing, and secret bread is more pleasant.
    18: And he did not know that giants are there, and that her companions are in the depths of Hell

  Chapter 10.

    1: A wise son gladdens the father. Yet truly, a foolish son is the grief of his mother
    2: Treasures of impiety will profit nothing. Truly, justice shall liberate from death
    3: The Lord will not afflict with famine the soul of the just, and he will overthrow the treacheries of the impious
    4: The neglectful hand has wrought destitution. But the hand of the steadfast prepares riches. He who advances by lies, this one feeds on the wind. For he is the same as one who runs after flying birds
    5: He who gathers the harvest is a wise son. But he who snores in warm weather is a son of confusion
    6: The blessing of the Lord is on the head of the just. But iniquity covers the mouth of the impious
    7: The remembrance of the just is with praises. And the name of the impious shall decay
    8: The wise of heart accept precepts. The foolish are cut down by the lips
    9: He who walks in simplicity walks in confidence. But he who corrupts his ways shall be discovered
    10: He who winks with the eye gives sorrow. And the foolish in lips shall be beaten
    11: The mouth of the just is a vein of life. And the mouth of the impious covers iniquity
    12: Hatred rises up from disputes. And charity covers all offenses
    13: In the lips of the wise, wisdom is discovered. And a rod is for the back of one who lacks heart
    14: The wise store away knowledge. But the mouth of the foolish is a neighbor to confusion
    15: The substance of the rich is the city of his strength. The fear of the poor is their destitution
    16: The work of the just is unto life. But the fruit of the impious is unto sin
    17: The way of life is for those who observe discipline. But whoever abandons correction wanders astray
    18: Lying lips conceal hatred; whoever brings forth contempt is unwise
    19: In a multitude of speaking, sin will not be lacking. But whoever tempers his lips is most prudent
    20: The tongue of the just is choice silver. But the heart of the impious is exchanged for nothing
    21: The lips of the just instruct many. But those who are unlearned shall die in destitution of heart
    22: The blessing of the Lord causes riches. Affliction will not be a companion to them
    23: The foolish work wickedness as if in jest. But wisdom is prudence to a man
    24: What the impious fear will overwhelm them. The just shall be given their desire
    25: Like a passing tempest, so the impious one will be no more. But the just one is like an everlasting foundation
    26: Like vinegar to the teeth, and smoke to the eyes, so is a lazy one to those who sent him
    27: The fear of the Lord adds days. And the years of the impious will be shortened
    28: The expectation of the just is rejoicing. But the hope of the impious will perish
    29: The strength of the simple is the way of the Lord, and it is fear to those who work evil
    30: The just in eternity shall not be moved. But the impious will not live upon the earth
    31: The mouth of the just shall bring forth wisdom. The tongue of the depraved will perish
    32: The lips of the just consider what is acceptable. And the mouth of the impious considers perversities

  Chapter 11.

    1: A deceitful scale is an abomination with the Lord, and a fair weighing is his will
    2: Wherever arrogance may be, there too is insult. But wherever humility is, there too is wisdom
    3: The simplicity of the just shall direct them, and the rebellion of the perverse will devastate them
    4: Wealth will not profit in the day of vengeance. But justice shall liberate from death
    5: The justice of the simple shall direct his way. And the impious will fall in his impiety
    6: The justice of the upright shall free them. And the iniquitous will be seized by their own treachery
    7: When the impious man is dead, there will no longer be any hope. And the expectation of the anxious will perish
    8: The just one is freed from anguish. And the impious one will be handed over instead of him
    9: The pretender deceives his friend by mouth. But the just shall be freed by knowledge
    10: In the good of the just, the city shall exult. And in the perdition of the impious, there shall be praise
    11: By the blessing of the just, the city shall be exalted. And by the mouth of the impious, it will be subverted
    12: Whoever despises his friend is destitute in heart. But the prudent man will remain silent
    13: Whoever walks dishonestly reveals secrets. But whoever is of a faithful soul conceals what is confided by a friend
    14: Where there is no governor, the people shall fall. But where there is much counsel, well-being shall be
    15: He will be afflicted with evil, who provides a guarantee for an outsider. But whoever is wary of traps shall be secure
    16: A gracious woman shall discover glory. And the robust will have wealth
    17: A merciful man benefits his own soul. But whoever is cruel casts out even his close relatives
    18: The impious does work with inconstancy. But for the sower of justice, there is the reward of faithfulness
    19: Clemency prepares life. And the pursuit of evils prepares death
    20: A depraved heart is abominable to the Lord. And his will is with those who walk in simplicity
    21: Hand in hand, the evil shall not be innocent. But the offspring of the just shall be saved
    22: A beautiful and senseless woman is like a gold ring in the snout of a swine
    23: The desire of the just is entirely good. The anticipation of the impious is fury
    24: Some distribute their own goods, and they become wealthier. Others seize what is not their own, and they are always in need
    25: The soul that blesses shall be made fat. And whoever inebriates will likewise be inebriated himself
    26: Whoever hides away grain shall be cursed among the people. But a blessing is upon the head of those who sell it
    27: He does well to rise early, who seeks what is good. But whoever is a seeker of evils shall be oppressed by them
    28: Whoever trusts in his riches will fall. But the just shall spring up like a green leaf
    29: Whoever troubles his own house will possess the winds. And whoever is foolish will serve the wise
    30: The fruit of the just one is the tree of life. And whoever receives souls is wise
    31: If the just are repaid upon the earth, how much more the impious and the sinner

  Chapter 12.

    1: Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge. But whoever hates correction is unwise
    2: Whoever is good shall draw grace from the Lord. But whoever trusts in his own thoughts acts impiously
    3: Man will not be made strong from impiety. And the root of the just shall not be moved
    4: A diligent woman is a crown to her husband. And she who acts with confusion as to which things are worthy is decay to his bones
    5: The thoughts of the just are judgments. And the counsels of the impious are dishonest
    6: The words of the impious lie in wait for blood. The mouth of the just shall free them
    7: Turn from the impious, and they will not be. But the house of the just shall stand firm
    8: A man will be known by his doctrine. But whoever is vain and heartless will suffer contempt
    9: Better is a pauper who has what he needs, than someone glorious and in need of bread
    10: The just one knows the lives of his beasts. But the inner most parts of the impious are cruel
    11: Whoever works his land shall be satisfied with bread. But whoever continually pursues leisure is most foolish. Whoever is soothed by lingering over wine leaves behind contempt in his strongholds
    12: The desire of the impious is the fortification of what is most wicked. But the root of the just shall prosper
    13: For the sins of the lips draw ruin to the evil. But the just shall escape from distress
    14: By the fruit of his own mouth, each one shall be filled with good things, and according to the works of his own hands, it will be distributed to him
    15: The way of the foolish is right in his own eyes. But whoever is wise listens to counsels
    16: The senseless immediately reveals his anger. But whoever ignores injuries is clever
    17: He is a sign of justice, who speaks what he knows. But whoever deceives is a dishonest witness
    18: He who makes promises is also jabbed, as if with a sword, in conscience. But the tongue of the wise is reasonable
    19: The lips of truth shall be steadfast forever. But a hasty witness readies a lying tongue
    20: Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evils. But gladness follows those who take up counsels of peace
    21: Whatever may befall the just, it will not discourage him. But the impious will be filled with disasters
    22: Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord. But whoever acts faithfully pleases him
    23: A resourceful man conceals knowledge. And the heart of the unwise provokes foolishness
    24: The hand of the strong will rule. But anyone who is neglectful will pay tribute
    25: Grief in the heart of a man humbles him. And with a good word he shall be made glad
    26: He who ignores a loss for the sake of a friend is just. But the way of the impious will deceive them
    27: The dishonest will not discover gain. But the substance of a man will be like precious gold
    28: In the path of justice, there is life. But the devious way leads to death

End of day 176.