Day 12:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: Joseph was unable to restrain himself any longer, standing before so many. Therefore, he instructed that all should go outside, and that no stranger should be among them as they recognized one another
    2: And he lifted up his voice with weeping, which the Egyptians heard, along with the entire house of Pharaoh
    3: And he said to his brothers: “I am Joseph. Is my father still alive?” His brothers were unable to respond, being terrified by a very great fear
    4: And he said to them mildly, “Approach toward me.” And when they had approached close by, he said: “I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt
    5: Do not be afraid, and let it not seem to you to be a hardship that you sold me into these regions. For God sent me before you into Egypt for your salvation
    6: For it is two years since the famine began to be upon the land, and five years more remain, in which there can be neither plowing, nor reaping
    7: And God sent me ahead, so that you may be preserved upon the earth, and so that you would be able to have food in order to live
    8: I was sent here, not by your counsel, but by the will of God. He has caused me to be like a father to Pharaoh, and to be the lord of his entire house, as well as governor throughout all the land of Egypt
    9: Hurry, and go up to my father, and say to him: ‘Your son Joseph commands this: God has caused me to be lord of the entire land of Egypt. Come down to me, do not delay
    10: and you will live in the land of Goshen. And you will be next to me, you and your sons and the sons of your sons, your sheep and your herds, and all that you possess
    11: And there I will pasture you, (for there are still five years of famine remaining) lest both you and your house perish, along with all that you possess.
    12: Behold, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin can see that it is my mouth speaking to you
    13: You will report to my father about all my glory, and about all that you have seen in Egypt. Hurry, and bring him to me.
    14: And then falling upon the neck of his brother Benjamin, he embraced him and wept. And likewise, Benjamin wept at the same time on his neck
    15: And Joseph kissed all his brothers, and he cried over each one. After this, they were emboldened to speak to him
    16: And it was overheard, and the news spread by word throughout the king’s court. The brothers of Joseph had arrived, and Pharaoh was gladdened along with all his family
    17: And he told Joseph that he should command his brothers, saying: “ ‘Burden your beasts, and go into the land of Canaan
    18: and take from there your father and kindred, and come to me. And I will give you all the good things of Egypt, so that you may eat from the marrow of the land.’ 
    19: “And you may even instruct that they take wagons from the land of Egypt, in order to transport their little ones as well as their wives. And say: ‘Take your father, and come quickly, as soon as possible
    20: You need not give up anything from your household, for all the riches of Egypt will be yours.’ 
    21: And the sons of Israel did just as they were commanded. And Joseph gave them wagons, according to the command of Pharaoh, and provisions for the journey
    22: Likewise, he ordered two robes for each of them to be brought. Yet truly, to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver along with five of the best robes
    23: And he sent just as much money and clothing to his father, adding also ten male donkeys, with which to transport all the riches of Egypt, and as many female donkeys, carrying wheat and bread for the journey
    24: Thus he sent away his brothers, and as they set out he said, “Do not become angry on the way.
    25: And they ascended out of Egypt, and they arrived in the land of Canaan, to their father Jacob
    26: And they reported to him, saying: “Your son Joseph is alive, and he is ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. When Jacob heard this, he was stirred up, as if from a deep sleep, yet he did not believe them
    27: To the contrary, they explained the entire matter in order. And when he had seen the wagons, and all that he had sent, his spirit revived
    28: and he said: “It is enough for me, if my son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.

  Chapter 46.

    1: And Israel, setting out with all that he had, arrived at the Well of the Oath. And sacrificing victims there to the God of his father Isaac
    2: he heard him, by a vision in the night, calling him, and saying to him: “Jacob, Jacob.” And he answered him, “Behold, here I am.
    3: God said to him: “I am the most strong God of your father. Do not be afraid. Descend into Egypt, for there I will make of you a great nation
    4: I will descend with you to that place, and I will lead you back from there, returning. Also, Joseph will place his hands over your eyes
    5: Then Jacob rose up from the Well of the Oath. And his sons took him, with their little ones and wives, in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry the old man
    6: along with all that he possessed in the land of Canaan. And he arrived in Egypt with all his offspring
    7: his sons and his grandsons, his daughters and all his progeny together
    8: Now these are the names of the sons of Israel, who entered into Egypt, he with his children. The firstborn is Reuben
    9: The sons of Reuben: Hanoch and Pallu, and Hezron and Carmi
    10: The sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad, and Jachin and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman
    11: The sons of Levi: Gershon and Kohath, and Merari
    12: The sons of Judah: Er and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez and Zerah. Now Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And sons were born to Perez: Hezron and Hamul
    13: The sons of Issachar: Tola and Puvah, and Job and Shimron
    14: The sons of Zebulun: Sered and Elon and Jahleel
    15: These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore, along with his daughter Dinah, in Mesopotamia of Syria. All the souls of her sons and daughters are thirty-three
    16: The sons of Gad: Ziphion and Haggi, and Shuni and Ezbon, and Eri and Arodi, and Areli
    17: The sons of Asher: Imnah and Jesua, and Jessui and Beriah, and also their sister Sarah. The sons of Beria: Heber and Malchiel
    18: These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah. And these she bore to Jacob: sixteen souls
    19: The sons of Rachel, the wife of Jacob: Joseph and Benjamin
    20: And sons were born to Joseph in the land of Egypt, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of Heliopolis, bore for him: Manasseh and Ephraim
    21: The sons of Benjamin: Bela and Becher, and Ashbel and Gera, and Naaman and Ehi, and Rosh and Moppim, and Huppim and Ard
    22: These are the sons of Rachel, whom she bore to Jacob: all these souls are fourteen
    23: The sons of Dan: Hushim
    24: The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel and Guni, and Jezer and Shillem
    25: These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel, and these she bore to Jacob: all these souls are seven
    26: All the souls who went into Egypt with Jacob and who went out from his thigh, besides the wives of his sons, were sixty-six
    27: Now the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in the land of Egypt, were two souls. All the souls of the house of Jacob, who went into Egypt, were seventy
    28: Then he sent Judah ahead of himself, to Joseph, in order to report to him, and so that he would meet him in Goshen
    29: And when he had arrived there, Joseph harnessed his chariot, and he went up to meet his father at the same place. And seeing him, he fell upon his neck, and, amid embraces, he wept
    30: And the father said to Joseph, “Now I will die happy, because I have seen your face, and I am leaving you behind alive.
    31: And he said to his brothers and to all his father’s house: “I will go up and report to Pharaoh, and I will say to him: ‘My brothers, and my father’s house, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me
    32: And these honorable men are pastors of sheep, and they have the task of feeding the flock. Their cattle, and herds, and all that they were able to hold, they have brought with them.
    33: And when he will call you and will say, ‘What is your work?
    34: You will respond, ‘Your servants are pastors of honor, from our infancy even to the present time, both we and our fathers.’ Now you will say this so that you may be able to live in the land of Goshen, because the Egyptians detest all pastors of sheep.

  Chapter 47.

    1: And so Joseph entered and reported to Pharaoh, saying: “My father and brothers, their sheep and herds, and everything that they possess, have arrived from the land of Canaan. And behold, they stand together in the land of Goshen.
    2: Likewise, he stood in the sight of the king five men, the last of his brothers
    3: And he questioned them, “What do you have for work?” They responded: “Your servants are pastors of sheep, both we and our fathers
    4: We came to sojourn in your land, because there is no grass for the flocks of your servants, the famine being very grievous in the land of Canaan. And we petition you that you may order us, your servants, to be in the land of Goshen.
    5: And so the king said to Joseph: “Your father and brothers have come to you
    6: The land of Egypt is in your sight. Cause them to live in the best place, and deliver to them the land of Goshen. And if you know there to be industrious men among them, appoint these as foremen over my cattle.
    7: After this, Joseph brought in his father to the king, and he stood him in his sight. He blessed him
    8: and he questioned him: “How many are the days of the years of your life?
    9: He responded, “The days of my sojourn are one hundred and thirty years, few and unworthy, and they do not reach even to the days of the sojourning of my fathers.
    10: And blessing the king, he went outside
    11: Truly, Joseph gave his father and brothers a possession in Egypt, in the best place of the land, in Rameses, as Pharaoh had instructed
    12: And he fed them, along with all his father’s house, providing portions of food to each one
    13: For in the whole world there was a lack of bread, and a famine had oppressed the land, most of all Egypt and Canaan
    14: from which he gathered together all the money for the grain that they bought, and he took it into the treasury of the king
    15: And when the buyers had run out of money, all Egypt came to Joseph, saying: “Give us bread. Why should we die in your sight, lacking money?
    16: And he responded to them: “Bring me your cattle, and I will give food to you in exchange for them, if you do not have money.
    17: And when they had brought them, he gave them food for their horses, and sheep, and oxen, and donkeys. And he sustained them in that year in exchange for their cattle
    18: Likewise, they came the second year, and they said to him: “We will not conceal from our lord that our money is gone; likewise our cattle are gone. Neither are you unaware that we have nothing left but our bodies and our land
    19: Therefore, why should you watch us die? Both we and our land will be yours. Buy us into royal servitude, but provide seed, lest by the dying off of cultivators the land be reduced to a wilderness.
    20: Therefore, Joseph bought all the land of Egypt, each one selling his possessions because of the magnitude of the famine. And he subjected it to Pharaoh
    21: along with all of its people, from the newest borders of Egypt, even to its furthest limits
    22: except the land of the priests, which had been delivered to them by the king. To these also a portion of food was supplied out of the public storehouses, and, for this reason, they were not compelled to sell their possessions
    23: Therefore, Joseph said to the people: “So, as you discern, both you and your lands are possessed by Pharaoh; take seed and sow the fields
    24: so that you may be able to have grain. One fifth part you will give to the king; the remaining four I permit to you, as seed and as food for your families and children
    25: And they responded: “Our health is in your hand; only let our lord look kindly upon us, and we will serve the king with gladness.
    26: From that time, even to the present day, in the entire land of Egypt, the fifth part is turned over to the kings, and it has become like a law, except in the land of the priests, which was free from this condition
    27: And so, Israel lived in Egypt, that is, in the land of Goshen, and he possessed it. And he increased and was multiplied exceedingly
    28: And he lived in it seventeen years. And all the days of his life that passed were one hundred and forty-seven years
    29: And when he discerned that the day of his death was approaching, he called his son Joseph, and he said to him: “If I have found favor in your sight, place your hand under my thigh. And you shall show me mercy and truth, not to bury me in Egypt
    30: But I shall sleep with my fathers, and you will carry me from this land and bury me in the sepulcher of my ancestors.” And Joseph answered him, “I will do what you have ordered.
    31: And he said, “Then swear it to me.” And as he was swearing, Israel adored God, turning to the head of his resting place

  Chapter 48.

    1: After these things were done, it was reported to Joseph that his father was sick. And taking his two sons Manasseh and Ephraim, he went directly to him
    2: And it was told to the old man, “Behold, your son Joseph is coming to you.” And being strengthened, he sat up in bed
    3: And when he had entered to him, he said: “Almighty God appeared to me at Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, and he blessed me
    4: And he said: ‘I will increase and multiply you, and I will make you influential among the people. And I will give this land to you, and to your offspring after you, as an everlasting possession.
    5: Therefore, your two sons, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came here to you, will be mine. Ephraim and Manasseh will be treated by me just like Reuben and Simeon
    6: But the remainder, whom you will conceive after them, will be yours, and they will be called by the name of their brothers among their possessions
    7: As for me, when I came from Mesopotamia, Rachel died in the land of Canaan on the very journey, and it was springtime. And I entered Ephrath and buried her next to the way of Ephrath, which by another name is called Bethlehem.
    8: Then, seeing his sons, he said to him: “Who are these?
    9: He responded, “They are my sons, whom God gave to me as a gift in this place.” “Bring them to me,” he said, “so that I may bless them.
    10: For Israel’s eyes were clouded by reason of his great age, and he was unable to see clearly. And when they were placed up against him, he kissed and embraced them
    11: And he said to his son: “I have not been cheated out of seeing you. Moreover, God has shown me your offspring.
    12: And when Joseph had taken them from his father’s lap, he reverenced prone on the ground
    13: And he placed Ephraim on his right, that is, towards the left hand of Israel. Yet truly Manasseh was on his left, namely, towards his father’s right hand. And he placed them both up against him
    14: And he, extending his right hand, placed it over the head of Ephraim, the younger brother, but the left hand was on the head of Manasseh, who was the elder, so that his hands were crossed
    15: And Jacob blessed the sons of Joseph, and he said: “God, in whose sight my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, God who pastured me from my youth until the present day
    16: the Angel, who rescues me from all evils: bless these boys. And let my name be invoked over them, and also the names of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac. And may they increase into a multitude across the earth.
    17: But Joseph, seeing that his father had placed his right hand over the head of Ephraim, took it gravely. And grasping his father’s hand, he tried to lift it from Ephraim’s head and transfer it onto the head of Manasseh
    18: And he said to his father: “It should not have come to pass this way, father. For this one is the firstborn. Place your right hand over his head.
    19: But refusing, he said: “I know, my son, I know. And this one, indeed, will be among the people and will be multiplied. But his younger brother will be greater than he. And his offspring will increase among the nations.
    20: And he blessed them at that time, saying: “In you, Israel will be blessed, and it will be said: ‘May God treat you like Ephraim, and like Manasseh.’ ” And he established Ephraim before Manasseh
    21: And he said to his son Joseph: “See, I am dying, and God will be with you, and he will lead you back to the land of your fathers
    22: I give you one part beyond that of your brothers, which I took from the hand of the Amorite with my sword and my bow.

End of day 12.