Day 157:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['85', '86', '87', '88']:

  Chapter 85.

    1: A Prayer of David himself. Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear me. For I am needy and poor
    2: Preserve my soul, for I am holy. My God, bring salvation to your servant who hopes in you
    3: O Lord, be merciful to me, for I have cried out to you all day long
    4: Give joy to the soul of your servant, for I have lifted up my soul to you, Lord
    5: For you are sweet and mild, Lord, and plentiful in mercy to all who call upon you
    6: Pay attention, Lord, to my prayer, and attend to the voice of my supplication
    7: In the day of my tribulation, I cried out to you, because you heeded me
    8: There is no one like you among the gods, O Lord, and there is no one like you in your works
    9: All the nations, which you have made, will draw near and adore in your presence, O Lord. And they will glorify your name
    10: For you are great, and you perform wonders. You alone are God
    11: Lead me, O Lord, in your way, and I will walk in your truth. May my heart rejoice, so that it will fear your name
    12: I will confess to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart. And I will glorify your name in eternity
    13: For your mercy toward me is great, and you have rescued my soul from the lower part of Hell
    14: O God, the iniquitous have risen up against me, and the synagogue of the powerful have sought my soul, and they have not placed you in their sight
    15: And you, Lord God, are compassionate and merciful, being patient and full of mercy and truthful
    16: Look down upon me and have mercy on me. Grant your authority to your servant, and bring salvation to the son of your handmaid
    17: Make me a sign of what is good, so that those who hate me, may look and be confounded. For you, O Lord, have helped me and consoled me

  Chapter 86.

    1: A Canticle Psalm to the sons of Korah. Its foundations are in the holy mountains
    2: the Lord loves the gates of Zion above all the tabernacles of Jacob
    3: Glorious things are being said of you, O City of God
    4: I will be mindful of Rahab and of Babylon knowing me. Behold, the foreigners, and Tyre, and the people of the Ethiopians: these have been there
    5: Will not Zion say that this man and that man were born in her? And the Most High himself has founded her
    6: The Lord will explain, in the writings of peoples and of leaders, about those who have been in her
    7: For so the dwelling place within you is with all rejoicing

  Chapter 87.

    1: A Canticle Psalm to the sons of Korah. Unto the end. For Mahalath, to answer the understanding of Heman the Ezrahite
    2: O Lord, God of my salvation: I have cried out, day and night, in your presence
    3: Let my prayer enter in your sight. Incline your ear to my petition
    4: For my soul has been filled with evils, and my life has drawn near to Hell
    5: I am considered to be among those who will descend into the pit. I have become like a man without assistance
    6: idle among the dead. I am like the wounded sleeping in sepulchers, whom you no longer remember, and who have been repelled by your hand
    7: They have lain me in the lower pit: in dark places and in the shadow of death
    8: Your fury has been confirmed over me. And you have brought all your waves upon me
    9: You have sent my acquaintances far from me. They have set me as an abomination to themselves. I was handed over, yet I did not depart
    10: My eyes languished before destitution. All day long, I cried out to you, O Lord. I stretched out my hands to you
    11: Will you perform wonders for the dead? Or will physicians raise to life, and so confess to you
    12: Could anyone declare your mercy in the sepulcher, or your truth from within perdition
    13: Will your wonders be known in the darkness, or your justice in the land of oblivion
    14: And I have cried out to you, O Lord, and in early morning, my prayer will come before you
    15: Lord, why do you reject my prayer? Why do you turn your face away from me
    16: I am poor, and I have been amid hardships from my youth. And, though I have been exalted, I am humbled and disturbed
    17: Your wrath has crossed into me, and your terrors have disturbed me
    18: They have surrounded me like water, all day long. They have surrounded me, all at once
    19: Friend and neighbor, and my acquaintances, you have sent far away from me, away from misery

  Chapter 88.

    1: The understanding of Ethan the Ezrahite
    2: I will sing the mercies of the Lord in eternity. I will announce your truth with my mouth, from generation to generation
    3: For you have said: Mercy will be built in the heavens, unto eternity. Your truth will be prepared there
    4: I have set up a covenant with my elect. I have sworn to David my servant
    5: I will prepare your offspring, even in eternity. And I will build up your throne, from generation to generation
    6: The heavens will confess your miracles, Lord, and also your truth, in the Church of the saints
    7: For who among the clouds is equal to the Lord? Who among the sons of God is like God
    8: God is glorified by the counsel of the saints. He is great and terrible above all those who are around him
    9: O Lord, God of hosts, who is like you? You are powerful, Lord, and your truth is all around you
    10: You rule over the power of the sea, and you even mitigate the movement of its waves
    11: You have humbled the arrogant one, like one who has been wounded. You have scattered your enemies with the arm of your strength
    12: Yours are the heavens, and yours is the earth. You founded the whole world in all its fullness
    13: You created the north and the sea. Tabor and Hermon will exult in your name
    14: Your arm acts with power. Let your hand be strengthened, and let your right hand be exalted
    15: Justice and judgment are the preparation of your throne. Mercy and truth will precede your face
    16: Blessed is the people that knows jubilation. They will walk in the light of your countenance, O Lord
    17: and they will exult in your name all day long, and they will be exalted in your justice
    18: For you are the glory of their virtue, and in your goodness, our horn will be exalted
    19: For our assumption is of the Lord, and it is of our king, the holy one of Israel
    20: Then you spoke in a vision to your holy ones, and you said: I have stationed help with the powerful one, and I have exalted the elect one from my people
    21: I have found my servant David. I have anointed him with my holy oil
    22: For my hand will assist him, and my arm will fortify him
    23: The enemy will have no advantage over him, nor will the son of iniquity be positioned to harm him
    24: And I will cut down his enemies before his face. And those who hate him, I will turn to flight
    25: And my truth and my mercy will be with him. And his horn will be exalted in my name
    26: And I will place his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers
    27: He will invoke me: “You are my father, my God, and the support of my salvation.
    28: And I will make him the first-born, preeminent before the kings of the earth
    29: I will preserve my mercy for him eternally, and my covenant for him faithfully
    30: And I will set his offspring from generation to generation, and his throne like the days of heaven
    31: But if his sons abandon my law, and if they do not walk in my judgments
    32: if they profane my justices, and if they do not keep my commandments
    33: I will visit their iniquities with a rod, and their sins with a beating
    34: But I will not scatter my mercy from him, and I will not do harm to my truth
    35: And I will not profane my covenant, and I will not make void that which proceeds from my lips
    36: I have sworn by my holiness one time: I will not lie to David
    37: his offspring will remain for eternity. And his throne will be like the sun in my sight
    38: and, like the moon, it is perfected in eternity, and it is a faithful witness in heaven
    39: Yet, truly, you have rejected and despised, you have pushed away, my Christ
    40: You have overthrown the covenant of your servant. You have profaned his sanctuary on earth
    41: You have destroyed all his fences. You have made his territory dreadful
    42: All who pass by the way have plundered him. He has become a disgrace to his neighbors
    43: You have exalted the right hand of those who oppress him. You have brought joy to all his enemies
    44: You have diverted the help of his sword, and you have not assisted him in battle
    45: You have torn him away from cleansing, and you have smashed his throne down to the ground
    46: You have reduced the days of his time. You have flooded him with confusion
    47: How long, O Lord? Will you turn away unto the end? Will your wrath flare up like a fire
    48: Remember what my substance is. For could you really have appointed all the sons of men in vain
    49: Who is the man that will live, and yet not see death? Who will rescue his own soul from the hand of the underworld
    50: O Lord, where are your mercies of antiquity, just as you swore to David in your truth
    51: Be mindful, O Lord, of the disgrace of your servants (which I have sustained in my sinews) among many nations
    52: With these, your enemies have reproached you, O Lord; with these, they have reproached the commutation of your Christ
    53: Blessed is the Lord for all eternity. Amen. Amen

End of day 157.