Day 317:

Reading Romans, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Let every soul be subject to higher authorities. For there is no authority except from God and those who have been ordained by God
    2: And so, whoever resists authority, resists what has been ordained by God. And those who resist are acquiring damnation for themselves
    3: For leaders are not a source of fear to those who work good, but to those who work evil. And would you prefer not to be afraid of authority? Then do what is good, and you shall have praise from them
    4: For he is a minister of God for you unto good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid. For it is not without reason that he carries a sword. For he is a minister of God; an avenger to execute wrath upon whomever does evil
    5: For this reason, it is necessary to be subject, not solely because of wrath, but also because of conscience
    6: Therefore, you must also offer tribute. For they are the ministers of God, serving him in this
    7: Therefore, render to all whatever is owed. Taxes, to whom taxes is due; revenue, to whom revenue is due; fear, to whom fear is due; honor, to whom honor is due
    8: You should owe nothing to anyone, except so as to love one another. For whoever loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law
    9: For example: You shall not commit adultery. You shall not kill. You shall not steal. You shall not speak false testimony. You shall not covet. And if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as yourself
    10: The love of neighbor does no harm. Therefore, love is the plenitude of the law
    11: And we know the present time, that now is the hour for us to rise up from sleep. For already our salvation is closer than when we first believed
    12: The night has passed, and the day draws near. Therefore, let us cast aside the works of darkness, and be clothed with the armor of light
    13: Let us walk honestly, as in the daylight, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in promiscuity and sexual immorality, not in contention and envy
    14: Instead, be clothed with the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh in its desires

  Chapter 14.

    1: But accept those who are weak in faith, without disputing about ideas
    2: For one person believes that he may eat all things, but if another is weak, let him eat plants
    3: He who eats should not despise him who does not eat. And he who does not eat should not judge him who eats. For God has accepted him
    4: Who are you to judge the servant of another? He stands or falls by his own Lord. But he shall stand. For God is able to make him stand
    5: For one person discerns one age from the next. But another discerns unto every age. Let each one increase according to his own mind
    6: He who understands the age, understands for the Lord. And he who eats, eats for the Lord; for he gives thanks to God. And he who does not eat, does not eat for the Lord, and he gives thanks to God
    7: For none of us lives for himself, and none of us dies for himself
    8: For if we live, we live for the Lord, and if we die, we die for the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord
    9: For Christ died and rose again for this purpose: that he might be the ruler of both the dead and the living
    10: So then, why do you judge your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ
    11: For it is written: “As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bend to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
    12: And so, each one of us shall offer an explanation of himself to God
    13: Therefore, we should no longer judge one another. Instead, judge this to a greater extent: that you should not place an obstacle before your brother, nor lead him astray
    14: I know, with confidence in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in and of itself. But to him who considers anything to be unclean, it is unclean to him
    15: For if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are not now walking according to love. Do not allow your food to destroy him for whom Christ died
    16: Therefore, what is good for us should not be a cause of blasphemy
    17: For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but rather justice and peace and joy, in the Holy Spirit
    18: For he who serves Christ in this, pleases God and is proven before men
    19: And so, let us pursue the things that are of peace, and let us keep to the things that are for the edification of one another
    20: Do not be willing to destroy the work of God because of food. Certainly, all things are clean. But there is harm for a man who offends by eating
    21: It is good to refrain from eating meat and from drinking wine, and from anything by which your brother is offended, or led astray, or weakened
    22: Do you have faith? It belongs to you, so hold it before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in that by which he is tested
    23: But he who discerns, if he eats, is condemned, because it is not of faith. For all that is not of faith is sin

  Chapter 15.

    1: But we who are stronger must bear with the feebleness of the weak, and not so as to please ourselves
    2: Each one of you should please his neighbor unto good, for edification
    3: For even Christ did not please himself, but as it was written: “The reproaches of those who reproached you fell upon me.
    4: For whatever was written, was written to teach us, so that, through patience and the consolation of the Scriptures, we might have hope
    5: So may the God of patience and solace grant you to be of one mind toward one another, in accord with Jesus Christ
    6: so that, together with one mouth, you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ
    7: For this reason, accept one another, just as Christ also has accepted you, in the honor of God
    8: For I declare that Christ Jesus was the minister of circumcision because of the truth of God, so as to confirm the promises to the fathers
    9: and that the Gentiles are to honor God because of his mercy, just as it was written: “Because of this, I will confess you among the Gentiles, O Lord, and I will sing to your name.
    10: And again, he says: “Rejoice, O Gentiles, along with his people.
    11: And again: “All Gentiles, praise the Lord; and all peoples, magnify him.
    12: And again, Isaiah says: “There shall be a root of Jesse, and he shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, and in him the Gentiles shall hope.
    13: So may the God of hope fill you with every joy and with peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope and in the virtue of the Holy Spirit
    14: But I am also certain about you, my brothers, that you also have been filled with love, completed with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another
    15: But I have written to you, brothers, more boldly than to the others, as if calling you to mind again, because of the grace which has been given to me from God
    16: so that I may be a minister of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles, sanctifying the Gospel of God, in order that the oblation of the Gentiles may be made acceptable and may be sanctified in the Holy Spirit
    17: Therefore, I have glory in Christ Jesus before God
    18: So I dare not speak of any of those things which Christ does not effect through me, unto the obedience of the Gentiles, in word and deed
    19: with the power of signs and wonders, by power of the Holy Spirit. For in this way, from Jerusalem, throughout its surroundings, as far as Illyricum, I have replenished the Gospel of Christ
    20: And so I have preached this Gospel, not where Christ was known by name, lest I build upon the foundation of another
    21: but just as it was written: “Those to whom he was not announced shall perceive, and those who have not heard shall understand.
    22: Because of this also, I was greatly hindered in coming to you, and I have been prevented until the present time
    23: Yet truly now, having no other destination in these regions, and having already had a great desire to come to you over the past many years
    24: when I begin to set out on my journey to Spain, I hope that, as I pass by, I may see you, and I may be guided from there by you, after first having borne some fruit among you
    25: But next I will set out for Jerusalem, to minister to the saints
    26: For those of Macedonia and Achaia have decided to make a collection for those of the poor among the saints who are at Jerusalem
    27: And this has pleased them, because they are in their debt. For, since the Gentiles have become partakers of their spiritual things, they also ought to minister to them in worldly things
    28: Therefore, when I have completed this task, and have consigned to them this fruit, I shall set out, by way of you, to Spain
    29: And I know that when I come to you I shall arrive with an abundance of the blessings of the Gospel of Christ
    30: Therefore, I beg you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Holy Spirit, that you assist me with your prayers to God on my behalf
    31: so that I may be freed from the unfaithful who are in Judea, and so that the oblation of my service may be acceptable to the saints in Jerusalem
    32: So may I come to you with joy, through the will of God, and so may I be refreshed with you
    33: And may the God of peace be with you all. Amen

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is in the ministry of the church, which is at Cenchreae
    2: so that you may receive her in the Lord with the worthiness of the saints, and so that you may be of assistance to her in whatever task she will have need of you. For she herself has also assisted many, and myself also
    3: Greet Prisca and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus
    4: who have risked their own necks on behalf of my life, for whom I give thanks, not I alone, but also all the churches of the Gentiles
    5: and greet the church at their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is among the first-fruits of Asia in Christ
    6: Greet Mary, who has labored much among you
    7: Greet Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow captives, who are noble among the Apostles, and who were in Christ prior to me
    8: Greet Ampliatus, most beloved to me in the Lord
    9: Greet Urbanus, our helper in Christ Jesus, and Stachys, my beloved
    10: Greet Apelles, who has been tested in Christ
    11: Greet those who are from the household of Aristobulus. Greet Herodian, my kinsman. Greet those who are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord
    12: Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, most beloved, who has labored much in the Lord
    13: Greet Rufus, elect in the Lord, and his mother and mine
    14: Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers who are with them
    15: Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them
    16: Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you
    17: But I beg you, brothers, to take note of those who cause dissensions and offenses contrary to the doctrine that you have learned, and to turn away from them
    18: For ones such as these do not serve Christ our Lord, but their inner selves, and, through pleasing words and skillful speaking, they seduce the hearts of the innocent
    19: But your obedience has been made known in every place. And so, I rejoice in you. But I want you to be wise in what is good, and simple in what is evil
    20: And may the God of peace quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you
    21: Timothy, my fellow laborer, greets you, and Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen
    22: I, Tertius, who wrote this epistle, greet you in the Lord
    23: Gaius, my host, and the entire church, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, and Quartus, a brother
    24: The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen
    25: But to him who is able to confirm you according to my Gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, in accord with the revelation of the mystery which has been hidden from time immemorial
    26: (which now has been made clear through the Scriptures of the Prophets, in accord with the precept of the eternal God, unto the obedience of faith) which has been made known among all the Gentiles
    27: to God, who alone is wise, through Jesus Christ, to him be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen

End of day 317.