Day 309:

Reading Acts, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now Saul, still breathing threats and beatings against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
    2: and he petitioned him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that, if he found any men or women belonging to this Way, he could lead them as prisoners to Jerusalem
    3: And as he made the journey, it happened that he was approaching Damascus. And suddenly, a light from heaven shone around him
    4: And falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
    5: And he said, “Who are you, Lord?” And he: “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goad.
    6: And he, trembling and astonished, said, “Lord, what do you want me to do?
    7: And the Lord said to him, “Rise up and go into the city, and there you will be told what you ought to do.” Now the men who were accompanying him were standing stupefied, hearing indeed a voice, but seeing no one
    8: Then Saul rose up from the ground. And upon opening his eyes, he saw nothing. So leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus
    9: And in that place, he was without sight for three days, and he neither ate nor drank
    10: Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, “Ananias!” And he said, “Here I am, Lord.
    11: And the Lord said to him: “Rise up and go into the street that is called Straight, and seek, in the house of Judas, the one named Saul of Tarsus. For behold, he is praying.
    12: (And Paul saw a man named Ananias entering and imposing hands upon him, so that he might receive his sight.
    13: But Ananias responded: “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem
    14: And he has authority here from the leaders of the priests to bind all who invoke your name.
    15: Then the Lord said to him: “Go, for this one is an instrument chosen by me to convey my name before nations and kings and the sons of Israel
    16: For I will reveal to him how much he must suffer on behalf of my name.
    17: And Ananias departed. And he entered the house. And laying his hands upon him, he said: “Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, he who appeared to you on the way by which you arrived, sent me so that you would receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.
    18: And immediately, it was as if scales had fallen from his eyes, and he received his sight. And rising up, he was baptized
    19: And when he had taken a meal, he was strengthened. Now he was with the disciples who were at Damascus for some days
    20: And he was continuously preaching Jesus in the synagogues: that he is the Son of God
    21: And all who heard him were astonished, and they said, “Is this not the one who, in Jerusalem, was fighting against those invoking this name, and who came here for this: so that he might lead them away to the leaders of the priests?
    22: But Saul was increasing to a greater extent in ability, and so he was confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus, by affirming that he is the Christ
    23: And when many days were completed, the Jews took counsel as one, so that they might put him to death
    24: But their treachery became known to Saul. Now they were also watching the gates, day and night, so that they might put him to death
    25: But the disciples, taking him away by night, sent him over the wall by letting him down in a basket
    26: And when he had arrived in Jerusalem, he attempted to join himself to the disciples. And they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple
    27: But Barnabas took him aside and led him to the Apostles. And he explained to them how he had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken to him, and how, in Damascus, he had acted faithfully in the name of Jesus
    28: And he was with them, entering and departing Jerusalem, and acting faithfully in the name of the Lord
    29: He also was speaking with the Gentiles and disputing with the Greeks. But they were seeking to kill him
    30: And when the brothers had realized this, they brought him to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus
    31: Certainly, the Church had peace throughout all of Judea and Galilee and Samaria, and it was being built up, while walking in the fear of the Lord, and it was being filled with the consolation of the Holy Spirit
    32: Then it happened that Peter, as he traveled around everywhere, came to the saints who were living at Lydda
    33: But he found there a certain man, named Aeneas, who was a paralytic, who had lain in bed for eight years
    34: And Peter said to him: “Aeneas, the Lord Jesus Christ heals you. Rise up and arrange your bed.” And immediately he rose up
    35: And all who were living in Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they were converted to the Lord
    36: Now in Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which in translation is called Dorcas. She was filled with the good works and almsgiving that she was accomplishing
    37: And it happened that, in those days, she became ill and died. And when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room
    38: Now since Lydda was close to Joppa, the disciples, upon hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, asking him: “Do not be slow in coming to us.
    39: Then Peter, rising up, went with them. And when he had arrived, they led him to an upper room. And all the widows were standing around him, weeping and showing him the tunics and garments that Dorcas had made for them
    40: And when they had all been sent outside, Peter, kneeling down, prayed. And turning to the body, he said: “Tabitha, arise.” And she opened her eyes and, upon seeing Peter, sat up again
    41: And offering her his hand, he lifted her up. And when he had called in the saints and the widows, he presented her alive
    42: Now this became known throughout all of Joppa. And many believed in the Lord
    43: And it happened that he resided for many days in Joppa, with a certain Simon, a tanner

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now there was a certain man in Caesarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort which is called Italian
    2: a devout man, fearing God with all his house, giving many alms to the people, and praying to God continually
    3: This man saw in a vision clearly, at about the ninth hour of the day, the Angel of God entering to him and saying to him: “Cornelius!
    4: And he, gazing at him, was seized by fear, and he said, “What is it, lord?” And he said to him: “Your prayers and your almsgiving have ascended as a memorial in the sight of God
    5: And now, send men to Joppa and summon a certain Simon, who is surnamed Peter
    6: This man is a guest with a certain Simon, a tanner, whose house is beside the sea. He will tell you what you must do.
    7: And when the Angel who was speaking to him had departed, he called, out of those who were subject to him, two of his household servants and a soldier who feared the Lord
    8: And when he had explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa
    9: Then, on the following day, while they were making the journey and approaching the city, Peter ascended to the upper rooms, so that he might pray, at about the sixth hour
    10: And since he was hungry, he wanted to enjoy some food. Then, as they were preparing it, an ecstasy of mind fell over him
    11: And he saw heaven opened, and a certain container descending, as if a great linen sheet were let down, by its four corners, from heaven to earth
    12: on which were all four-footed beasts, and the crawling things of the earth and the flying things of the air
    13: And a voice came to him: “Rise up, Peter! Kill and eat.
    14: But Peter said: “Far be it from me, lord. For I have never eaten anything common or unclean.
    15: And the voice, again a second time to him: “What God has purified, you shall not call common.
    16: Now this was done three times. And immediately the container was taken up to heaven
    17: Now while Peter was still hesitant within himself as to what the vision, which he had seen, might mean, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius stood at the gate, inquiring about Simon’s house
    18: And when they had called out, they asked if Simon, who is surnamed Peter, was a guest in that place
    19: Then, as Peter was thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Behold, three men seek you
    20: And so, rise up, descend, and go with them, doubting nothing. For I have sent them.
    21: Then Peter, descending to the men, said: “Behold, I am the one whom you seek. What is the reason for which you have arrived?
    22: And they said: “Cornelius, a centurion, a just and God-fearing man, who has good testimony from the entire nation of the Jews, received a message from a holy Angel to summon you to his house and to listen to words from you.
    23: Therefore, leading them in, he received them as guests. Then, on following the day, rising up, he set out with them. And some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him
    24: And on the next day, he entered Caesarea. And truly, Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his family and closest friends
    25: And it happened that, when Peter had entered, Cornelius went to meet him. And falling before his feet, he reverenced
    26: Yet truly, Peter, lifting him up, said: “Rise up, for I also am only a man.
    27: And speaking with him, he entered, and he found many who had gathered together
    28: And he said to them: “You know how abominable it would be for a Jewish man to be joined with, or to be added to, a foreign people. But God has revealed to me to call no man common or unclean
    29: Because of this and without doubt, I came when summoned. Therefore, I ask you, for what reason have you summoned me?
    30: And Cornelius said: “It is now the fourth day, to this very hour, since I was praying in my house at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in a white vestment, and he said
    31: ‘Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your almsgiving has been remembered in the sight of God
    32: Therefore, send to Joppa and summon Simon, who is surnamed Peter. This man is a guest in the house of Simon, a tanner, near the sea.
    33: And so, I promptly sent for you. And you have done well in coming here. Therefore, all of us are now present in your sight to hear all the things that were taught to you by the Lord.
    34: Then, Peter, opening his mouth, said: “I have concluded in truth that God is not a respecter of persons
    35: But within every nation, whoever fears him and works justice is acceptable to him
    36: God sent the Word to the sons of Israel, announcing the peace through Jesus Christ, for he is the Lord of all
    37: You know that the Word has been made known throughout all Judea. For beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached
    38: Jesus of Nazareth, whom God anointed with the Holy Spirit and with power, traveled around doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil. For God was with him
    39: And we are witnesses of all that he did in the region of Judea and in Jerusalem, he whom they killed by hanging him on a tree
    40: God raised him up on the third day and permitted him to be made manifest
    41: not to all the people, but to the witnesses preordained by God, to those of us who ate and drank with him after he rose again from the dead
    42: And he instructed us to preach to the people, and to testify that he is the One who was appointed by God to be the judge of the living and of the dead
    43: To him all the Prophets offer testimony that through his name all who believe in him receive the remission of sins.
    44: While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell over all of those who were listening to the Word
    45: And the faithful of the circumcision, who had arrived with Peter, were astonished that the grace of the Holy Spirit was also poured out upon the Gentiles
    46: For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God
    47: Then Peter responded, “How could anyone prohibit water, so that those who have received the Holy Spirit would not be baptized, just as we also have been?
    48: And he ordered them to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then they begged him to remain with them for some days

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now the Apostles and brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the Word of God
    2: Then, when Peter had gone up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision argued against him
    3: saying, “Why did you enter to uncircumcised men, and why did you eat with them?
    4: And Peter began to explain to them, in an orderly manner, saying
    5: “I was in the city of Joppa praying, and I saw, in an ecstasy of mind, a vision: a certain container descending, like a great linen sheet being let down from heaven by its four corners. And it drew near to me
    6: And looking into it, I considered and saw the four-footed beasts of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the reptiles, and the flying things of the air
    7: Then I also heard a voice saying to me: ‘Rise up, Peter. Kill and eat.
    8: But I said: ‘Never, lord! For what is common or unclean has never entered into my mouth.
    9: Then the voice responded a second time from heaven, ‘What God has cleansed, you shall not call common.
    10: Now this was done three times. And then everything was taken up again into heaven
    11: And behold, immediately there were three men standing near the house where I was, having been sent to me from Caesarea
    12: Then the Spirit told me that I should go with them, doubting nothing. And these six brothers went with me also. And we entered into the house of the man
    13: And he described for us how he had seen an Angel in his house, standing and saying to him: ‘Send to Joppa and summon Simon, who is surnamed Peter
    14: And he shall speak to you words, by which you shall be saved with your whole house.
    15: And when I had begun to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, just as upon us also, in the beginning
    16: Then I remembered the words of the Lord, just as he himself said: ‘John, indeed, baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.
    17: Therefore, if God gave them the same grace, as also to us, who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I would be able to prohibit God?
    18: Having heard these things, they were silent. And they glorified God, saying: “So has God also given to the Gentiles repentance unto life.
    19: And some of them, having been dispersed by the persecution that had occurred under Stephen, traveled around, even to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the Word to no one, except to Jews only
    20: But some of these men from Cyprus and Cyrene, when they had entered into Antioch, were speaking also to the Greeks, announcing the Lord Jesus
    21: And the hand of the Lord was with them. And a great number believed and were converted to the Lord
    22: Now the news came to the ears of the Church at Jerusalem about these things, and they sent Barnabas as far as Antioch
    23: And when he had arrived there and had seen the grace of God, he was gladdened. And he exhorted them all to continue in the Lord with a resolute heart
    24: For he was a good man, and he was filled with the Holy Spirit and with faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord
    25: Then Barnabas set out for Tarsus, so that he might seek Saul. And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch
    26: And they were conversing there in the Church for an entire year. And they taught such a great multitude, that it was at Antioch that the disciples were first known by the name of Christian
    27: Now in these days, prophets from Jerusalem went over to Antioch
    28: And one of them, named Agabus, rising up, signified through the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine over the entire world, which did happen under Claudius
    29: Then the disciples declared, according to what each one possessed, what they would offer to be sent to the brothers living in Judea
    30: And so they did, sending it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now at the same time, king Herod extended his hand, in order to afflict some from the Church
    2: Then he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword
    3: And seeing that it pleased the Jews, he set out next to apprehend Peter also. Now it was the days of Unleavened Bread
    4: So when he had apprehended him, he sent him into prison, handing him over into the custody of four groups of four soldiers, intending to produce him to the people after the Passover
    5: And so Peter was detained in prison. But prayers were being made without ceasing, by the Church, to God on his behalf
    6: And when Herod was ready to produce him, in that same night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, and was bound with two chains. And there were guards in front of the door, guarding the prison
    7: And behold, an Angel of the Lord stood near, and a light shined forth in the cell. And tapping Peter on the side, he awakened him, saying, “Rise up, quickly.” And the chains fell from his hands
    8: Then the Angel said to him: “Dress yourself, and put on your boots.” And he did so. And he said to him, “Wrap your garment around yourself and follow me.
    9: And going out, he followed him. And he did not know this truth: that this was being done by an Angel. For he thought that he was seeing a vision
    10: And passing by the first and second guards, they came to the iron gate which leads into the city; and it opened for them by itself. And departing, they continued on along a certain side street. And suddenly the Angel withdrew from him
    11: And Peter, returning to himself, said: “Now I know, truly, that the Lord sent his Angel, and that he rescued me from the hand of Herod and from all that the people of the Jews were anticipating.
    12: And as he was considering this, he arrived at the house of Mary, the mother of John, who was surnamed Mark, where many were gathered and were praying
    13: Then, as he knocked at the door of the gate, a girl went out to answer, whose name was Rhoda
    14: And when she recognized the voice of Peter, out of joy, she did not open the gate, but instead, running in, she reported that Peter stood before the gate
    15: But they said to her, “You are crazy.” But she reaffirmed that this was so. Then they were saying, “It is his angel.
    16: But Peter was persevering in knocking. And when they had opened, they saw him and were astonished
    17: But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he explained how the Lord had led him away from prison. And he said, “Inform James and those brothers.” And going out, he went away to another place
    18: Then, when daylight came, there was no small commotion among the soldiers, as to what had happened concerning Peter
    19: And when Herod had requested him and did not obtain him, having had the guards interrogated, he ordered them led away. And descending from Judea into Caesarea, he lodged there
    20: Now he was angry with those of Tyre and Sidon. But they came to him with one accord, and, having persuaded Blastus, who was over the bedchamber of the king, they petitioned for peace, because their regions were supplied with food by him
    21: Then, on the appointed day, Herod was clothed in kingly apparel, and he sat in the judgment seat, and he gave a speech to them
    22: Then the people were crying out, “The voice of a god, and not of a man!
    23: And immediately, an Angel of the Lord struck him down, because he had not given honor to God. And having been consumed by worms, he expired
    24: But the word of the Lord was increasing and multiplying
    25: Then Barnabas and Saul, having completed the ministry, returned from Jerusalem, bringing with them John, who was surnamed Mark

End of day 309.