Day 223:

Reading Jeremiah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: “Travel the streets of Jerusalem; and gaze, and consider, and seek, in its wide streets. If you can find a man exercising judgment and seeking faith, then I will be forgiving to them
    2: For even though they say, ‘As the Lord lives,’ in this, too, they swear falsely.
    3: O Lord, your eyes look with favor upon faith. You have struck them, and they have not grieved. You have bruised them, and they have refused to accept discipline. They have hardened their faces more than rock, and they are not willing to return
    4: But I said: Perhaps these are the poor and the senseless, who are ignorant of the way of the Lord, of the judgment of their God
    5: Therefore, I will go to great men, and I will speak with them. For they have known the way of the Lord, the judgment of their God. And behold, these ones have broken the yoke all the more; they have torn apart the bonds
    6: For this reason, a lion from the forest has struck them down, a wolf toward evening has laid waste to them, a leopard lies in wait over their cities. All who go out from there will be taken. For their transgressions have been multiplied; their rebellions have been strengthened
    7: “Over which things am I able to be merciful to you? Your sons have forsaken me, and they swear by those who are not gods. I gave them everything, and they committed adultery, and they indulged themselves in the house of the harlot
    8: They have become like wild horses in heat; each one was neighing after his neighbor’s wife
    9: Shall I not visit against these things, says the Lord? And shall my soul not take vengeance on a nation such as this
    10: Scale its walls and tear them down. But do not be willing to bring about its very end. Take away its plantings, for they are not the Lord’s
    11: For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have greatly transgressed against me, says the Lord
    12: They have denied the Lord, and they have said, ‘It is not him,’ and, ‘Evil will not overwhelm us. We will not see famine and the sword.
    13: The prophets have spoken into the wind, and there was no answer with them. Therefore, these things will happen to them.
    14: Thus says the Lord, the God of hosts: “Since you have spoken this word, behold, I will make my words in your mouth like fire and this people like wood, and it will devour them
    15: Behold, O house of Israel, I will lead over you a far away nation, says the Lord, a robust nation, an ancient nation, a nation whose language you will not know, nor will you understand what they are saying
    16: Their quiver is like an open sepulcher. They are all strong
    17: And they will consume your grain fields and your bread. They will devour your sons and your daughters. They will consume your flocks and your herds. They will consume your vineyards and your figs. And with the sword, they will crush your fortified cities, in which you have placed your trust
    18: Yet truly, in those days, says the Lord, I will not bring the consummation over you
    19: And if they say, ‘Why has the Lord our God done all these things to us?’ You shall say to them: ‘Just as you have abandoned me and have served a strange god in your own land, so will you serve strangers in a land not your own.
    20: Announce this to the house of Jacob, and make it known in Judah, saying
    21: Listen, O foolish people who have no heart! You have eyes, but you do not see, and ears, but you do not hear
    22: So then, will you not fear me, says the Lord. And will you not have sorrow before my face? I have placed the shore as a limit for the sea, as an everlasting precept that it will not transgress. And its waves will crash, but they will not prevail; and its waves will swell, but they will not go across
    23: But the heart of this people has become incredulous and provocative; they have turned away and departed
    24: And they have not said in their heart: ‘Let us dread the Lord our God, who gives us the timely and the late rains, in their proper time, who guards the full measure of the yearly harvest for us.
    25: Your iniquities have turned these things away, and your sins have held back good things from you
    26: For the impious are found among my people; they lie in ambush like fowlers setting snares, for they set traps to catch men
    27: Just as a snare is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit. As a result, they have become exalted and enriched
    28: They have grown stout and fat. And they have transgressed my words most wickedly. They have not judged the case of the widow; they have not given guidance to the case of the orphan; and they have not judged a judgment for the poor
    29: Shall I not visit against these things, says the Lord? Or shall my soul not take vengeance on a nation of this kind
    30: Astonishing and wondrous things have been done upon the earth
    31: The prophets have prophesied lies, and the priests have applauded with their hands, and my people have loved these things. So then, what shall be done at the very end?

  Chapter 6.

    1: “O sons of Benjamin, be strengthened in the midst of Jerusalem, and sound the trumpet in Tekoa, and lift up a banner over the house of Haccherem. For an evil has been seen from the north, with great destruction
    2: I have compared the daughter of Zion to a beautiful and delicate woman
    3: The pastors will come to her with their flocks. They have pitched their tents against her all around. Each one will feed those who are under his hand
    4: ‘Sanctify a war against her! Rise up together, and let us ascend at midday.’ ‘Woe to us! For the day has declined; for the shadows of the evening have grown longer.
    5: ‘Rise up, and let us ascend in the night, and let us destroy her houses.’ 
    6: For thus says the Lord of hosts: “Cut down her trees, and build a rampart around Jerusalem. This is the city of visitation! Every kind of false claim is in her midst
    7: Just as a cistern makes its water cold, so has she made her wickedness cold. Iniquity and devastation will be heard in her; sickness and wounds will be ever before me
    8: O Jerusalem, accept instruction, lest perhaps my soul may withdraw from you; lest perhaps I may set you in a desert, in an uninhabitable land.
    9: Thus says the Lord of hosts: “They will gather the remnant of Israel, even as a single cluster of grapes is gathered from a vine. Direct your hand, as a grape-gatherer directs his hand to the basket
    10: To whom should I speak, and to whom should I testify, so as to be heard? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised, and so they are unable to hear. Behold, for them, the word of the Lord has become a disgrace. And so they will not accept it
    11: For this reason, I have been filled with the fury of the Lord. I labor to bear it. Let it be poured out upon the child outside, or upon a group of young men meeting together. For a man will be taken captive with a woman, an elder will be taken captive with one who is full of days
    12: And their houses will be given over to others, with both their lands and their wives. For I will extend my hand over the inhabitants of the earth, says the Lord
    13: Certainly, from the least of them even to the greatest, all of them practice greed. And from the prophet even to the priest, all of them act with deceit
    14: And they healed the destruction of the daughter of my people with disgrace, by saying: ‘Peace, peace.’ And there was no peace
    15: They were confounded, because they committed an abomination. Or rather, they were not confounded with shame, because they did not know how to blush. For this reason, they will fall among those who are being destroyed. In the time of their visitation, they will fall, says the Lord.
    16: Thus says the Lord: “Stand above the ways, and see and ask, about the ancient paths, as to which is the good way, and then walk in it. And you will find refreshment for your souls. But they said: ‘We will not walk.
    17: And I appointed watchers over you, saying: ‘Listen for the sound of the trumpet.’ And they said: ‘We will not listen.
    18: For this reason, hear, O Gentiles, and know, O congregation, how much I will do to them
    19: Hear, O earth! Behold, I will lead evils over this people, as the fruits of their own thoughts. For they have not listened to my words, and they have cast aside my law
    20: For what reason are you bringing me frankincense from Sheba, and sweet smelling reeds from a far away land? Your holocausts are not acceptable, and your sacrifices are not pleasing to me.
    21: Therefore, thus says the Lord: “Behold I will bring this people to utter ruin, and they will fall, with their fathers and sons; neighbor and relative will perish together.
    22: Thus says the Lord: “Behold, a people is coming from the land of the north, and a great nation will rise up from the ends of the earth
    23: They will take hold of arrow and shield. They are cruel, and they will not take pity. Their voice will roar like the ocean. And they will climb upon horses, for they have been prepared like men for battle, against you, O daughter of Zion
    24: ‘We have heard of their fame. Our hands have become weakened. Tribulation has overtaken us, like the pains of a woman giving birth.
    25: Do not choose to go out into the fields, and you should not walk along the roadway. For the sword and the terror of the enemy is on every side
    26: Wrap yourself in haircloth, O daughter of my people. And sprinkle yourself with ashes. Make a mourning for yourself, as for an only son, a bitter lamentation: ‘for the destroyer will overwhelm us suddenly.
    27: I have presented you as a strong tester among my people. And you will test and know their way
    28: All these leaders who are turning away and walking deceitfully, they are brass and iron; they have all been corrupted
    29: The bellows has failed; the lead has been consumed by fire; the molten metal was melted to no purpose. For their wickedness has not been consumed
    30: Call them: ‘Rejected silver.’ For the Lord has cast them aside.

  Chapter 7.

    1: The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying
    2: “Stand at the gate to the house of the Lord, and preach this word there, and say: Listen to the word of the Lord, all you of Judah who enter through these gates to adore the Lord
    3: Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Make your ways and your intentions good, and I will live with you in this place
    4: Do not choose to trust in lying words, saying: ‘This is the temple of the Lord! The temple of the Lord! The temple of the Lord!
    5: For if you direct your ways and your intentions well, if you exercise judgment between a man and his neighbor
    6: if you do not act with deceit toward the new arrival, the orphan, and the widow, and if you do not pour out innocent blood in this place, and if you do not walk after strange gods, which is to your own harm
    7: then I will live with you in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers from the beginning and even forever
    8: Behold, you trust in false words, which will not benefit you
    9: so as to steal, to murder, to commit adultery, to swear falsely, to offer libations to Baal, and to go after strange gods, which you do not know
    10: And you arrived and stood before me in this house, where my name is invoked, and you said: ‘We have been freed because we carried out all these abominations.
    11: So then, has this house, where my name has been invoked, become a den of robbers in your eyes? It is I, I am, I have seen, says the Lord
    12: Go to my place in Shiloh, where my name has lived from the beginning, and see what I did to it because of the wickedness of my people Israel
    13: And now, because you have done all these works, says the Lord, and because I have spoken to you from your morning rising, and because I was speaking, but you were not listening, and because I have called you, but you have not responded
    14: I will do to this house, in which my name is invoked, and in which you have confidence, even to this place which I gave to you and to your fathers, just as I have done to Shiloh
    15: And I will cast you away from my face, just as I have cast away all your brothers, the entire offspring of Ephraim
    16: Therefore, you should not pray for this people, nor take up praise and supplication on their behalf. And you should not stand in opposition to me. For then I will not heed you
    17: Have you not seen what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem
    18: The sons gather the wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the wives spread the grease, so as to make cakes to the queen of heaven and to offer libations to strange gods, and so as to provoke me to anger
    19: But are they provoking me to anger, says the Lord? Are they not provoking themselves, to the confusion of their own faces?
    20: Therefore, thus says the Lord God: “Behold, my fury and my indignation is kindled against this place, over men and over beasts, and over the trees of the countryside and over the fruits of the land, and it will burn and not be extinguished.
    21: Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: “Add your holocausts to your sacrifices, and eat the flesh
    22: For concerning the matter of holocausts and sacrifices, I did not speak with your fathers, and I did not instruct them, in the day when I led them away from the land of Egypt
    23: But on this matter I did instruct them, saying: Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. And walk in the entire way that I have commanded you, so that it may be well with you
    24: But they did not listen, nor did they incline their ear. Instead, they walked by their own will and in the depravity of their own wicked heart. And so, they went backward, and not forward
    25: from the day when their fathers went forth from the land of Egypt, even to this day. And I have sent all my servants, the prophets, to you, throughout the day, rising at first light and sending them
    26: But they have not listened to me, nor have they inclined their ear. Instead, they have stiffened their neck, and they have behaved worse than their fathers did
    27: And so, you will speak to them all these words, but they will not listen to you. And you will call to them, but they will not respond to you
    28: And you will say to them: This is the nation that has not listened to the voice of the Lord their God, nor accepted discipline. Faith has perished and been taken away from their mouth
    29: Cut off your hair, and cast it away. And take up a lamentation on high. For the Lord has cast aside and abandoned this generation of his fury
    30: For the sons of Judah have done evil in my eyes, says the Lord. They have stationed their abominations in the house where my name is invoked, so that they may defile it
    31: And they have built the exalted places of Topheth, which is in the Valley of the son of Hinnom, so that they may burn their sons and their daughters with fire, something I neither instructed, nor thought in my heart
    32: For this reason, behold, the days will arrive, says the Lord, when it will no longer be called Topheth, nor the Valley of the son of Hinnom, but instead the Valley of Slaughter. Yet they will bury in Topheth, because there will be no other place
    33: And the corpses of this people will be food for the birds of the air and for the wild beasts of the land, and there will be no one to drive them away
    34: And from the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem, I will cause the cessation of the voice of gladness and the voice of rejoicing, the voice of the groom and the voice of the bride. For the land will be in utter desolation.

  Chapter 8.

    1: “In that time, says the Lord, they will cast out the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of its leaders, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of those who were living in Jerusalem, from their graves
    2: And they will spread them out before the sun and the moon and the entire army of the heavens, which they have loved, and served, and followed, and which they have sought and adored. They will not be collected, and they will not be buried. They will be like manure upon the face of the earth
    3: And they will greatly prefer death to life: all those who will have been left from this wicked kindred, in all the forsaken places to which I will cast them out, says the Lord of hosts
    4: And you will say to them: Thus says the Lord: He who falls, will he not rise again? And he who has been turned away, will he not return
    5: Then why have this people in Jerusalem turned away with a contentious loathing? They have taken hold of what is false, and they are not willing to return
    6: I paid close attention and I listened carefully. No one is speaking what is good. There is no one who does penance for his sin, saying: ‘What have I done?’ They have all turned to their own course, like a horse rushing with fury into battle
    7: The hawk in the heavens has known her time. The turtledove, and the swallow, and the stork have kept the time of their arrival. But my people have not known the judgment of the Lord
    8: How can you say: ‘We are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us?’ Truly, the lying pen of the scribes has wrought falsehood
    9: The wise men have been confounded; they were terrified and captured. For they cast aside the word of the Lord, and there is no wisdom in them
    10: Because of this, I will give their wives to outsiders and their fields to others as an inheritance. For from the least, even to the greatest, they all pursue avarice; from the prophet, even to the priest, they all act with deceit
    11: And they healed the destruction of the daughter of my people with disgrace, by saying: ‘Peace, peace,’ though there was no peace
    12: They have been confounded because they committed abomination. Or rather, they have not been confounded with shame, for they do not know how to blush. For this reason, they will fall among the fallen. In the time of their visitation, they will fall, says the Lord
    13: When gathering, I will gather them together, says the Lord. There are no grapes on the vine, and there are no figs on the fig tree. The leaves have fallen. And I have given them the things that have passed away.
    14: “Why are we sitting still? Assemble, and let us enter the fortified city, and let us remain silent there. For the Lord our God has brought us to silence, and he has given us the water of gall as a drink. For we have sinned against the Lord
    15: We expected peace, but there was nothing good. We expected a time of health, and behold, dread.
    16: “From Dan, the snorting of his horses was heard; the entire land was shaken by the voice of the neighing of his fighters. And they arrived and devoured the land and its plenitude, the city and its inhabitants
    17: For behold, I will send among you serpents, king snakes, against which there is no charm, and they will bite you, says the Lord
    18: My sorrow is beyond sorrow; my heart mourns within me
    19: Behold, the voice of the daughter of my people from a far away land. Is the Lord not with Zion, and is her king not within her? Then why have they provoked me to wrath by their graven images, and by their strange vanities
    20: The harvest has passed by, the summer is at an end, and we have not been saved
    21: Over the destruction of the daughter of my people, I am contrite and saddened; astonishment has taken hold of me
    22: Is there no balm in Gilead? Or is there no physician there? Then why has the wound of the daughter of my people not been closed?

End of day 223.