Day 272:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And I turned and lifted up my eyes. And I saw, and behold, a book flying
    2: And he said to me, “What do you see?” And I said, “I see a book flying. Its length is twenty cubits, and its width is ten cubits.
    3: And he said to me, “This is the curse that goes forth over the face of the whole earth. For every thief will be judged, just as it has been written there, and everyone who swears by this, will be judged in like manner.
    4: I will bring it forth, says the Lord of hosts, and it will approach to the house of the thief, and to the house of him who swears falsely by my name, and it will remain in the midst of his house and will consume it, with its wood and its stones
    5: And the angel had departed, who was speaking with me. And he said to me, “Lift up your eyes, and see what this is, that goes forth.
    6: And I said, “What, then, is it?” And he said, “This is a container going forth.” And he said, “This is their eye in all the earth.
    7: And behold, a talent of lead was being carried; and behold, one woman sitting in the middle of the container
    8: And he said, “This is impiety.” And he cast her into the middle of the container, and he sent the weight of lead into its mouth
    9: And I lifted up my eyes and I saw. And behold, two women were departing, and a spirit was in their wings, and they had wings like the wings of a kite, and they lifted up the container between earth and heaven
    10: And I said to the angel who was speaking with me, “Where are they taking the container?
    11: And he said to me, “To a house that may be built for it in the land of Shinar, and so that it may be established and set there upon its own base.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And I turned, and I lifted up my eyes and I saw. And behold, four four-horse chariots went out from the middle of two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of brass
    2: In the first chariot were red horses, and in the second chariot were black horses
    3: and in the third chariot were white horses, and in the fourth chariot were speckled horses, and they were strong
    4: And I responded and said to the angel who was speaking with me, “What are these, my lord?
    5: And the angel answered and said to me, “These are the four winds of heaven, which go forth to stand in the presence of the Sovereign of all the earth.
    6: The one with the black horses was departing into the land of the North, and the white went forth after them, and the speckled went forth towards the land of the South
    7: Yet those who were the most strong, went out, and sought to go and to roam quickly through all the earth. And he said, “Go, walk throughout the earth.” And they walked throughout the earth
    8: And he called me and spoke with me, saying, “Behold, those who go forth to the land of the North, have quieted my spirit in the land of the North.
    9: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    10: From those of the captivity, take from Heldai, and from Tobijah, and from Jedaiah. You will approach in that day, and you will go into the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah, who came from Babylon
    11: And you will take gold and silver; and you will make crowns, and you will set them on the head of Jesus the son of Jehozadak, the high priest
    12: And you will speak to him, saying: Thus says the Lord of hosts, saying: Behold, a man; the Rising is his name. And under him, he will rise up, and he will build a temple to the Lord
    13: And he will raise a temple to the Lord. And he will carry the glory, and he will sit and rule upon his throne. And he will be a priest upon his throne, and a counsel of peace will be between the two of them
    14: And the crowns will be to Heldai, and Tobijah, and Jedaiah, as well as to Hem, the son of Zephaniah, as a memorial in the temple of the Lord
    15: And those who are far away, will approach, and will build in the temple of the Lord. And you will know that the Lord of hosts sent me to you. Yet this shall be only if, when hearing, you will have heeded the voice of the Lord your God

  Chapter 7.

    1: And it happened, in the fourth year of king Darius, that the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Kislev
    2: And Sharezer and Regemmelech, and the men who were with them, sent to the house of God, to entreat the face of the Lord
    3: to speak to the priests of the house of the Lord of hosts and to the prophets, saying: “Must there be weeping with me in the fifth month, and must I sanctify myself, as I have now done for many years?
    4: And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying
    5: Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying: Although you may have fasted and mourned in the fifth and the seventh month for these seventy years, did you indeed keep a fast unto me
    6: And when you did eat and drink, did you not eat for yourselves, and drink only for yourselves
    7: Are not these the words that the Lord has spoken by the hand of the former prophets, when Jerusalem was still inhabited, so that it would prosper, itself and the cities around it, and those inhabitants towards the South and in the plains
    8: And the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying
    9: Thus says the Lord of hosts, saying: Judge with true judgment, and act with mercy and compassion, each and every one with his brother
    10: And do not find fault with the widow, and the orphan, and the newcomer, and the poor. And let not a man consider evil in his heart towards his brother
    11: But they were not willing to pay attention, and they turned aside their shoulder to depart, and they pressed upon their ears, so that they would not hear
    12: And they set their heart like the hardest stone, so that they would not hear the law and the words that the Lord of hosts has sent with his Spirit by the hand of the former prophets. And so a great indignation came from Lord of hosts
    13: And it happened, just as he had spoken, and they did not pay attention. So then, they shall cry out, and I will not heed, says the Lord of hosts
    14: And I dispersed them throughout all the kingdoms that they did not know. And the land was left desolate behind them, so that no one was passing through or returning. And they made the desirable land into a deserted place

  Chapter 8.

    1: And the word of the Lord of hosts came, saying
    2: Thus says the Lord of hosts: I have been zealous for Zion with a great zeal, and with a great indignation have I been zealous for her
    3: Thus says the Lord of hosts: I have been turned back towards Zion, and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem will be called: “The City of Truth,” and “The Mountain of the Lord of Hosts, the Sanctified Mountain.
    4: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Then elderly men and elderly women will dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, and every man will be with his walking stick in his hand, because of the multitude of days
    5: And the streets of the city will be filled with toddlers and children, playing in its streets
    6: Thus says the Lord of hosts: If it seems difficult in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days, could it indeed be difficult in my eyes, says the Lord of hosts
    7: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will save my people from the land of the East, and from the land of the setting of the sun
    8: And I will lead them, and they will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And they will be my people, and I will be their God, in truth and in justice
    9: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Let your hands be strengthened, you who, in those days, are listening to these words by the mouth of the prophets, in the day that the house of the Lord of hosts has been founded, so that the temple may be built
    10: Indeed, before those days, there was no pay for men, nor was there pay for beasts of burden, and neither was there peace for those entering, nor for those exiting, because of the tribulation. And I had dismissed all men, each one against his neighbor
    11: But now, I will not act towards the remnant of this people according to the former days, says the Lord of hosts
    12: But there will be a seed of peace: the vine will give her fruit, and the earth will give her seedlings, and the heavens will give their dew. And I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things
    13: And this shall be: just as you were a curse among the Gentiles, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you will be a blessing. Do not be afraid. Let your hands be strengthened
    14: For thus says the Lord of hosts: Just as I intended to afflict you, when your fathers had provoked me to wrath, says the Lord
    15: and I did not show mercy, so have I turned back, thinking in these days to do good to the house of Judah and to Jerusalem. Do not be afraid
    16: Therefore, these are the words that you shall do: Speak the truth, each one to his neighbor. With truth and a judgment of peace, judge at your gates
    17: And let not anyone think up evil against his friend in your hearts. And do not choose to swear falsely. For all these are things that I hate, says the Lord
    18: And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying
    19: Thus says the Lord of hosts: The fast of the fourth, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth will be for the house of Judah in joy and gladness and with bright solemnities. So then, love truth and peace
    20: Thus says the Lord of hosts, then the people may arrive and dwell in many cities
    21: and the inhabitants may hurry, one saying to another: “Let us go and entreat the face of the Lord, and let us seek the Lord of hosts. I will go also.
    22: And many peoples and strong nations will approach, seeking the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem, and to entreat the face of the Lord
    23: Thus says the Lord of hosts: In those days, then, ten men from every language of the Gentiles will grasp and cling to the hem of one man of Judea, saying: “We will go with you. For we have heard that God is with you.

End of day 272.