Day 110:

Reading Nehemiah, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And there occurred a great outcry of the people and their wives against their brothers, the Jews
    2: And there were those who were saying: “Our sons and our daughters are very many. Let us receive grain as a price for them, and then we may eat and live.
    3: And there were those who were saying: “Let us offer up our fields and vineyards, and our houses, and then we may receive grain during the famine.
    4: And others were saying: “Let us borrow money for the tribute of the king, and let us surrender our fields and vineyards.
    5: “And now, as is the flesh of our brothers, so is our flesh; and as are their sons, so also are our sons. Behold, we have subjugated our sons and our daughters into servitude, and some of our daughters are slaves, nor do we have the ability to redeem them, for others possess our fields and our vineyards.
    6: And when I had heard their outcry in these words, I was exceedingly angry
    7: And my heart considered within me. And I rebuked the nobles and the magistrates, and I said to them, “Have you each been exacting usury from your brothers?” And I gathered together a great assembly against them
    8: And I said to them: “As you know, in accord with what was possible for us, we have redeemed our brothers, the Jews, who had been sold to the Gentiles. And yet you now sell your brothers, and we must redeem them?” And they were silent, nor did they find anything to answer
    9: And I said to them: “The thing that you are doing is not good. Why are you not walking in the fear of our God, so that there may be no reproach against us from our enemies, the Gentiles
    10: Both I and my brothers, with my servants, have lent money and grain to many. Let us agree not to ask for its return. Let us forgive the other money that is owed to us
    11: On this day, restore their fields, and their vineyards, and their olive groves, and their houses to them. Then, too, the hundredth part of the money, and of the grain, wine, and oil, which you usually exact from them, give it to them.
    12: And they said: “We will restore it, and we will require nothing from them. And we will do just as you say.” And I called the priests, and I had them swear an oath, so that they would act in accord with what I had said
    13: Moreover, I shook out my lap, and I said: “So may God shake out every man, who does not fulfill this word. From his house and from his labors, so may he be shaken out and become empty.” And the entire multitude said, “Amen.” And they praised God. Therefore, the people acted in accord with what was said
    14: Now from that day, on which the king had ordered me to be governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even to the thirty-second year of king Artaxerxes, for twelve years, I and my brothers did not eat the yearly allowance that was owed to the governors
    15: But the former governors, the ones who had been before me, were a burden to the people, and they took from them bread and wine, and forty shekels of money each day. And their officials also oppressed the people. But I did not do so, out of fear of God
    16: In fact, I preferred to build in the work of the wall, and I bought no land, and all my servants were gathered to do the work
    17: Likewise, the Jews and the magistrates, one hundred and fifty men, were at my table, with those who came to us from among the Gentiles that are around us
    18: Now there was prepared for me, on each day, one ox and six choice rams, along with poultry. And once every ten days, I distributed diverse wines and many other things. Yet I did not require my yearly allowance as governor. For the people were greatly impoverished
    19: Remember me, O my God, for good, in accord with all that I have done for this people

  Chapter 6.

    1: Now it happened that, when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem, an Arab, and our other enemies, had heard that I had built the wall, and that there was no interruption remaining in it, (even though, at that time, I had not set up the double doors at the gates,
    2: Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying: “Come, and let us strike a pact together in the villages, on the plain of Ono.” But they were thinking that they would do me harm
    3: Therefore, I sent messengers to them, saying: “I am doing a great work, and I cannot descend, lest perhaps it may be neglected when I go out and descend to you.
    4: Then they sent to me, with this same word, four times. And I responded to them with the same word as before
    5: And Sanballat sent his servant to me a fifth time, with the former word, and he had a letter in his hand written in this manner
    6: “It has been heard among the Gentiles, and Geshem has said it, that you and the Jews are planning to rebel, and because of this, you are building the wall and thinking to raise yourself as a king over them. For this reason
    7: you also have stationed prophets, who preach about you in Jerusalem, saying: ‘There is a king in Judea!’ But the king will hear about these words. Therefore, come now, so that we may go to counsel together.
    8: And I sent to them, saying: “There has been nothing done according to these words, which you have spoken. For you are inventing these things from your own heart.
    9: For all these men wished to frighten us, thinking that our hands would cease from the work, and that we would cease. For this reason, I strengthened my hands all the more
    10: And I entered into the house of Shemaiah, the son of Delaiah, the son of Mehetabel, in secret. And he said: “Let us consult together in the house of God, in the midst of the temple. And let us close the doors of the temple. For they will come to kill you, and they will arrive in the night to put you to death.
    11: And I said: “How could anyone like me flee? And who like me should enter the temple, so that he may live? I will not enter.
    12: And I understood that God had not sent him, but he had spoken to me as if he were prophesying, and that Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him
    13: For he had accepted money, so that I would be afraid, and would sin, and so that they would have some evil with which to rebuke me
    14: Remember me, O Lord, because of Tobiah and Sanballat, because of their works of this kind. Then, too, Noadiah, a prophetess, and the rest of the prophets, would have made me afraid
    15: Now the wall was completed on the twenty-fifth day of the month of Elul, in fifty-two days
    16: Then it happened that, when all our enemies had heard of it, all the nations that were around us were afraid, and they were downcast within themselves. For they knew that this work had been accomplished by God
    17: But also, in those days, many letters were being sent by the nobles of the Jews to Tobiah, and were arriving from Tobiah to them
    18: For there were many in Judea who had sworn an oath to him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah, the son of Arah, and because Jehohanan, his son, had married the daughter of Meshullam, the son of Berechiah
    19: Moreover, they praised him before me, and they reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters, so that he might make me afraid

  Chapter 7.

    1: Then, after the wall was built, and I set up the double doors, and I enrolled the gatekeepers, and the singing men, and the Levites
    2: I instructed Hanani, my brother, and Hananiah, the leader of the house of Jerusalem, (for he seemed to be a truthful man, fearing God more than the others,
    3: and I said to them: “Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot.” And while they were standing there, the gates were closed and barred. And I stationed guards from the inhabitants of Jerusalem, each one in his turn, and each one opposite his own house
    4: Now the city was great and very wide, and the people in its midst were few, and the houses were not yet built
    5: But God had given to my heart, and I gathered the nobles, and the magistrates, and the common people, so that I might enroll them. And I found a book of the census of those who first went up, and in it there was found written
    6: These are the sons of the province, who ascended from the captivity of the transmigration, those whom Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had taken away, and who returned into Jerusalem and Judea, each one to his own city
    7: They arrived with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel
    8: The sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two
    9: The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two
    10: The sons of Arah, six hundred fifty-two
    11: The sons of Pahath-moab of the sons of Jeshua and of Joab, two thousand eight hundred eighteen
    12: The sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four
    13: The sons of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five
    14: The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty
    15: The sons of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight
    16: The sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight
    17: The sons of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two
    18: The sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven
    19: The sons of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven
    20: The sons of Adin, six hundred fifty-five
    21: The sons of Ater, sons of Hezekiah, ninety-eight
    22: The sons of Hashum, three hundred twenty-eight
    23: The sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four
    24: The sons of Hariph, one hundred twelve
    25: The sons of Gibeon, ninety-five
    26: The sons of Bethlehem and Netophah, one hundred eighty-eight
    27: The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight
    28: The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty-two
    29: The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three
    30: The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one
    31: The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two
    32: The men of Bethel and Ai, one hundred twenty-three
    33: The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two
    34: The men of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four
    35: The sons of Harim, three hundred twenty
    36: The sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five
    37: The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-one
    38: The sons of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred thirty
    39: The priests: the sons of Jedaiah in the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three
    40: The sons of Immer, one thousand fifty-two
    41: The sons of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven
    42: The sons of Harim, one thousand and seventeen.
    43: The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, the son
    44: of Hodaviah, seventy-four. The singing men
    45: the sons of Asaph, one hundred forty-eight
    46: The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, one hundred thirty-eight
    47: The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth
    48: the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon, the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Shalmai
    49: the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar
    50: the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda
    51: the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah
    52: the sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephusim
    53: the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur
    54: the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha
    55: the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah
    56: the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha
    57: The sons of the servants of Solomon: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida
    58: the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel
    59: the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth, who was born from Hazzebaim, the son of Amon
    60: All the temple servants and the sons of the servants of Solomon, three hundred ninety-two
    61: Now these are the ones who ascended from Telmelah, Telharsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; and they were not able to indicate the house of their fathers and their offspring, whether they were of Israel
    62: the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two
    63: and among the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai, a Gileadite, and he was called by their name
    64: These sought their writing in the census, and they did not find it, and so they were cast out of the priesthood
    65: And the cupbearer said to them that they should not eat from the Holy of Holies, until a priest would stand up who was learned and skillful
    66: The entire multitude, which was like one man, was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty
    67: aside from their men and women servants, who were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven, and among them were singing men and singing women, two hundred forty-five
    68: Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their were mules two hundred forty-five
    69: Their camels were four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys were six thousand seven hundred twenty
    70: Now several of the leaders of the families gave to the work. The cupbearer gave to the treasury one thousand drachmas of gold, fifty bowls, and five hundred thirty priestly garments
    71: And some of the leaders of the families gave to the treasury of the work twenty thousand drachmas of gold, and two thousand two hundred minas of silver
    72: And what the remainder of the people gave was twenty thousand drachmas of gold, and two thousand minas of silver, and sixty-seven priestly garments
    73: Now the priests, and the Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singing men, and the rest of the common people, and the temple servants, and all of Israel dwelt in their own cities

  Chapter 8.

    1: And the seventh month had arrived. Now the sons of Israel were in their cities. And all the people were gathered together, like one man, in the street which is before the water gate. And they spoke to Ezra the scribe, so that he would bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had instructed to Israel
    2: Therefore, Ezra the priest brought the law before the multitude of men and women, and all those who were able to understand, on the first day of the seventh month
    3: And he read it openly in the street which was before the water gate, from morning even until midday, in the sight of the men and women, and those who understood. And the ears of all the people were attentive to the book
    4: Then Ezra the scribe stood upon a step of wood, which he had made for speaking. And standing beside him were Mattithiah, and Shemaiah, and Anaiah, and Uriah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right. And on the left were Pedaiah, Mishael, and Malchijah, and Hashum, and Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam
    5: And Ezra opened the book before all the people. For he stood out above all the people. And when he had opened it, all the people stood up
    6: And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people responded, “Amen, Amen,” lifting up their hands. And they bowed down, and they adored God, facing the ground
    7: Then Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, the Levites, caused the people to be silent in order to hear the law. And the people were standing on their feet
    8: And they read from the book of the law of God, distinctly and plainly, so as to be understood. And when it was read, they did understand
    9: Then Nehemiah (the same is the cupbearer) and Ezra, the priest and scribe, and the Levites, who were interpreting for all the people, said: “This day has been sanctified to the Lord our God. Do not mourn, and do not weep.” For all of the people were weeping, as they were listening to the words of the law
    10: And he said to them: “Go, eat fat foods and drink sweet drinks, and send portions to those who have not prepared for themselves. For it is the holy day of the Lord. And do not be sad. For the joy of the Lord is also our strength.
    11: Then the Levites caused the people to be silent, saying: “Be quiet. For the day is holy. And do not be sorrowful.
    12: And so all the people went forth, so that they might eat and drink, and so that they might send portions, and so that they might make a great rejoicing. For they understood the words that he had taught to them
    13: And on the second day, the leaders of the families of all the people, the priests, and the Levites were gathered together to Ezra the scribe, so that he might interpret for them the words of the law
    14: And they found written in the law, which the Lord had instructed by the hand of Moses, that the sons of Israel should live in tabernacles on the day of solemnity in the seventh month
    15: and that they should proclaim and send out a voice in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying: “Go forth to the mount, and bring olive branches, and the branches of beautiful trees, myrtle branches, and palm branches, and the branches of thick trees,” so that they might make tabernacles, just as it was written
    16: And the people went forth and brought. And they made for themselves tabernacles, each one at his own dwelling, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim
    17: Therefore, the entire assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made tabernacles and lived in tabernacles. For from the days of Jeshua, the son of Nun, even to that day, the sons of Israel had not done so. And there was exceedingly great rejoicing
    18: Now he read in the book of the law of God, throughout each day, from the first day even to the very last day. And they kept the solemnity for seven days. And on the eighth day, there was a gathering according to the ritual

End of day 110.