Day 44:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: “You shall not immolate to the Lord your God a sheep or an ox, in which there is a blemish or any defect at all; for this is an abomination to the Lord your God
    2: When there will have been found among you, within one of your gates which the Lord your God will give to you, a man or a woman who is doing evil in the sight of the Lord your God, and who is transgressing his covenant
    3: so as to go and serve foreign gods and adore them, such as the sun and the moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I have not instructed
    4: and when this will have been reported to you, and, upon hearing it, if you have inquired diligently and have found it to be true, that the abomination is being done in Israel
    5: you shall lead forward the man or the woman who has perpetrated this most wicked thing to the gates of your city, and they shall be stoned to death
    6: By the mouth of two or three witnesses, he who is to be put to death shall perish. Let no one be killed with only one person speaking testimony against him
    7: First, the hands of the witnesses shall be upon him who will be put to death, and lastly, the hands of the remainder of the people shall be sent forth. So may you take away the evil from your midst
    8: If you have perceived that there is among you a difficult and doubtful matter of judgment, between blood and blood, cause and cause, leprosy and leprosy, and if you will have seen that the words of the judges within your gates vary: rise up and ascend to the place which the Lord your God will choose
    9: And you shall approach the priests of the Levitical stock, and the judge, who shall be among them at that time, and you shall inquire of them, and they will reveal to you the truth of the judgment
    10: And you shall accept whatever they will say, those who preside in the place which the Lord will choose, and whatever they will teach you
    11: in accord with his law, and you shall follow their sentence. Neither shall you turn aside to the right or to the left
    12: But whoever will be arrogant, unwilling to obey the order of the priest who ministers at that time to the Lord your God, and the decree of the judge, that man shall die. And so shall you take away the evil from Israel
    13: And when the people hear about this, they shall be afraid, so that no one, from that time on, will swell with pride
    14: When you will have entered into the land which the Lord your God will give to you, and you possess it, and you live in it, and you say, ‘I will appoint a king over me, just as all the surrounding nations have done,
    15: you shall appoint him whom the Lord your God will choose from among the number of your brothers. You cannot make a man of another people king, one who is not your brother
    16: And when he will have been appointed king, he shall not multiply horses for himself, nor lead the people back into Egypt, having been exalted by the number of his horsemen, especially since the Lord has instructed you never to return along the same way
    17: He shall not have many wives, who might allure his mind, and he shall not have immense weights of silver and gold
    18: Then, after he has been seated upon the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself the Deuteronomy of this law in a volume, using a copy from the priests of the Levitical tribe
    19: And he shall have it with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, so that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, and to keep his words and ceremonies, which are instructed in the law
    20: And so may his heart not become exalted with arrogance over his brothers, nor turn aside to the right or to the left, so that he and his sons may reign for a long time over Israel.

  Chapter 18.

    1: “The priests and the Levites, and all who are from the same tribe, shall have no portion or inheritance with the rest of Israel. For they shall eat the sacrifices of the Lord and his oblations
    2: And they shall receive nothing else from the possession of their brothers. For the Lord himself is their inheritance, just as he said to them
    3: This shall be the recompense for the priests from the people, and from those who offer victims, whether they will immolate an ox or a sheep. They shall give to the priest the shoulder and the breast
    4: the first-fruits of grain, wine, and oil, and a portion of the wool from the shearing of the sheep
    5: For the Lord your God himself has chosen him out of all your tribes, so that he may stand and minister to the name of the Lord, him and his sons, forever
    6: If a Levite departs from one of the cities, throughout all of Israel, in which he lives, and if he wills and desires to go to the place which the Lord will choose
    7: he shall minister in the name of the Lord his God, as do all his brothers, the Levites, who will be standing at that time in the sight of the Lord
    8: He shall receive the same portion of food as the rest also receive, besides that which is due to him in his own city, by succession from his fathers
    9: When you will have entered into the land which the Lord your God will give to you, be careful that you are not willing to imitate the abominations of those nations
    10: Do not let there be found among you one who would purify his son or daughter by leading them through fire, nor one who consults seers, nor one who observes dreams or omens. Do not let there be found among you one who practices the occult
    11: nor one who uses spells, nor one who consults demonic spirits, nor a diviner, nor one who seeks the truth from the dead
    12: For the Lord abominates all these things. And, because of these wicked ways, he will destroy them at your arrival
    13: You shall be perfect and without blemish with the Lord your God
    14: These nations, whose land you shall possess, they listen to soothsayers and diviners. But you have been otherwise instructed by the Lord your God
    15: The Lord your God will raise up for you a PROPHET from your nation and from your brothers, similar to me. You shall listen to him
    16: just as you petitioned of the Lord your God at Horeb, when the assembly was gathered together, and you said: ‘Let me no longer hear the voice of the Lord my God, and let me no longer see this very great fire, lest I die.
    17: And the Lord said to me: ‘They have spoken all these things well
    18: I will raise up a prophet for them, from the midst of their brothers, similar to you. And I will place my words in his mouth, and he will speak to them all the things that I will instruct him
    19: But against anyone who is not willing to listen to his words, which he will speak in my name, I will stand forth as the avenger
    20: But if a prophet, having been corrupted by arrogance, chooses to speak, in my name, things which I did not instruct him to say, or to speak in the name of foreign gods, he shall be put to death
    21: But if, in silent thought, you respond: “How will I be able to recognize a word which the Lord has not spoken?
    22: you shall have this sign. If whatever that prophet predicts in the name of the Lord does not happen, then the Lord has not spoken it. Instead, the prophet has formed it through the swelling of his own mind. And for this reason, you shall not fear him.’ 

  Chapter 19.

    1: “When the Lord your God will have destroyed the nations, whose land he will deliver to you, and when you possess it and live in its cities and buildings
    2: you shall separate for yourselves three cities in the midst of the land, which the Lord will give to you as a possession
    3: paving the road carefully. And you shall divide the entire province of your land equally into three parts, so that he who is forced to flee because of manslaughter may have a place nearby to which he may be able to escape
    4: This shall be the law of the killer who flees, whose life is to be saved. Whoever strikes down his neighbor unwillingly, and who has been proven to have had no hatred against him yesterday and the day before
    5: such that he had gone with him into the forest simply to cut wood, and in cutting down the tree, the axe slipped from his hand, or the iron slipped from the handle, and it struck his friend and killed him: he shall flee to one of the cities stated above, and he shall live
    6: Otherwise, perhaps the near relative of him whose blood was shed, impelled by his grief, might pursue and apprehend him, unless the way is too long, and he might strike down the life of him who is not guilty unto death, since he had demonstrated that he had no prior hatred against him who was slain
    7: For this reason, I instruct you to separate three cities at equal distance from one another
    8: And when the Lord your God will have enlarged your borders, just as he swore to your fathers, and when he will have given to you all the land that he has promised to them
    9: (but this is only so if you will keep his commandments and do the things which I instruct to you this day, so that you love the Lord your God, and walk in his ways at all times) you shall add for yourselves three other cities, and so you shall double the number of the three cities stated above
    10: So may innocent blood not be shed in the midst of the land which the Lord your God will give you to possess, lest you be guilty of blood
    11: But if anyone, having hatred for his neighbor, will have lain in ambush for his life, and, rising up, will have struck him, and he will have died, and if he will have fled to one of the cities stated above
    12: the elders of his city shall send, and they shall take him from the place of refuge, and they shall deliver him into the hand of the relative of him whose blood was shed, and he shall die
    13: You shall not take pity on him, and so shall you take away the blood of the innocent from Israel, so that it may be well with you
    14: You shall not take up or move the landmark of your neighbor, which those before you have placed, in your possession that the Lord your God will give to you, in the land you will receive to possess
    15: One witness shall not stand against another, no matter what the sin or outrage may be. For every word shall stand by the mouth of two or three witnesses
    16: If a lying witness will have stood against a man, accusing him of a transgression
    17: both of those whose case it is shall stand before the Lord in the sight of the priests and the judges who shall be in those days
    18: And when, after a very diligent examination, they will have found that the false witness had told a lie against his brother
    19: they shall render to him just as he intended to do to his brother. And so shall you take away the evil from your midst
    20: Then the others, upon hearing this, will be afraid, and they will by no means dare to do such things
    21: You shall not take pity on him. Instead, you shall require a life for a life, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot.

  Chapter 20.

    1: “If you go out to battle against your enemies, and you see horsemen and chariots, and that the multitude of your adversary’s army is greater than your own, you shall not fear them. For the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, is with you
    2: Then, as the battle now draws near, the priest shall stand before the front ranks, and he shall speak to the people in this manner
    3: ‘Listen, O Israel! Today you engage in a battle against your enemies. Do not let your heart be overwhelmed with fear. Do not be apprehensive. Do not yield. You should have no dread of them
    4: For the Lord your God is in your midst, and he will contend against your enemies on your behalf, so that he may rescue you from peril.
    5: Likewise, the officers shall proclaim, throughout every company, in the hearing of the soldiers: ‘What man is there who has built a new house, and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest perhaps he may die in the battle, and another man may dedicate it
    6: What man is there who has planted a vineyard, and has not yet caused it to be common, so that all may eat from it? Let him go, and return to his house, lest perhaps he may die in the battle, and another man may carry out his office
    7: What man is there, who has betrothed a wife, and has not taken her? Let him go, and return to his house, lest perhaps he may die in battle, and another man may take her.
    8: After these things have been declared, they shall add the remainder, and shall say to the people: ‘What man is there who is overwhelmed by fear and is fainthearted? Let him go, and return to his house, lest he cause the hearts of his brothers to fear, just as he himself has been thoroughly stricken with fear.
    9: And when the officers of the army have become silent, and have completed their speech, each one shall prepare his unit to wage war
    10: When, at any time, you approach a city to fight against it, you shall first offer peace to it
    11: If they receive it, and open the gates to you, then all the people who are in it shall be saved, and they shall serve you by paying tribute
    12: But if they are not willing to enter into an agreement, and they begin to act against you in warfare, then you shall besiege it
    13: And when the Lord your God will have delivered it into your hands, you shall strike down anyone who is in it, of the male gender, with the edge of the sword
    14: but not the women and young children, nor the cattle and the other things that are within the city. And you shall divide all the plunder to the soldiers, and you shall eat the spoils from your enemies, which the Lord your God will give to you
    15: So shall you do to all the cities which are at a great distance from you, those which are not among the cities that you shall receive as a possession
    16: But among those cities which shall be given to you, you shall not permit anyone at all to live
    17: Instead, you shall put them to death with the edge of the sword, specifically: the Hittite and the Amorite and the Canaanite, the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite, just as the Lord your God has commanded you
    18: Otherwise, they may teach you to do all the abominations which they have committed for their own gods. And then you would sin against the Lord your God
    19: When you will have besieged a city for a long time, and you will have encircled it with fortifications, so that you may fight against it, you shall not cut down trees from which one is able to eat, neither shall you cause devastation with axes to the surrounding region. For it is a tree, and not a man. It is not able to increase the number of those who are fighting against you
    20: But if there are any trees which are not fruitful, but are wild, and if these are fit for other uses, then cut them down, and make machines, until you have captured the city that is contending against you.

End of day 44.