Day 52:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Joshua was old and advanced in age, and the Lord said to him: “You have grown old, and are aged, and a very wide land remains, which has not yet been divided by lot
    2: specifically, all of Galilee, Philistia, and all of Geshur
    3: from the muddy river, which irrigates Egypt, as far as the border of Ekron toward the north, the land of Canaan, which is divided among the rulers of Philistia: the Gazites, and the Ashdodites, the Ashkelonites, the Gathites, and the Ekronites
    4: truly, to the south are the Hivites, all the land of Canaan, and Mearah of the Sidonians, as far as Aphek and the borders of the Amorit
    5: and his confines; also, the region of Lebanon toward the east, from Baalgad, under mount Hermon, until you enter into Hamath
    6: all who live in the mountains from Lebanon, as far as the waters of Misrephoth, and all the Sidonians. I am the One who will wipe them out, before the face of the sons of Israel. Therefore, let their land become a part of the inheritance of Israel, just as I have instructed you
    7: And now, divide the land as a possession to the nine tribes, and to the one half tribe of Manasseh.
    8: With them, Reuben and Gad have possessed the land, which Moses, the servant of the Lord, delivered to them beyond the river Jordan, on the eastern side
    9: from Aroer, which is situated on the bank of the torrent Arnon and in the midst of the valley, and all the plains of Medeba, as far as Dibon
    10: and all the cities of Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, even to the borders of the sons of Ammon
    11: and Gilead, as well as the borders of Geshur and Maacati, and all of mount Hermon, and all of Bashan, as far as Salecah
    12: the entire kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned at Ashtaroth and Edrei, (he was among the last of the Rephaim). And Moses struck and destroyed them
    13: And the sons of Israel were not willing to destroy Geshur and Maacati, and so they have lived in the midst of Israel, even to the present day
    14: But to the tribe of Levi, he did not give a possession. Instead, the sacrifices and victims of the Lord, the God of Israel, these are his inheritance, just as he spoke to him
    15: Therefore, Moses gave a possession to the tribe of the sons of Reuben, according to their families
    16: And their border was from Aroer, which is situated on the bank of the torrent Arnon, and in the midst of the valley of the same torrent, with all the flatlands that lead to Medeba
    17: and Heshbon, and all their villages, which are in the plains; also Dibon, and Bamothbaal, and the town of Baalmeon
    18: and Jahaz, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath
    19: and Kiriathaim, and Sibmah, and Zereth-shahar on the mountain of the steep valley
    20: Bethpeor, and the descending slopes of Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth
    21: and all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdoms of Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who reigned at Heshbon, whom Moses struck down with the leaders of Midian: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the commanders of Sihon, inhabitants of the land
    22: And the sons of Israel killed Balaam, the son of Beor, the seer, with the sword, along with the others who were slain
    23: And the river Jordan was made the border of the sons of Reuben; this is the possession of the Reubenites, by their families, in cities and villages
    24: And Moses gave to the tribe of Gad and his sons, by their families, a possession, of which this is the division
    25: the border of Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and one half part of the land of the sons of Ammon, as far as Aroer, which is opposite Rabbah
    26: and from Heshbon as far as Ramath, Mizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim as far as the borders of Debir
    27: also, in the valley Beth-haram and Beth-nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the remaining part of the kingdom of Sihon, the king of Heshbon; the limit of this also is the Jordan, as far as the furthest part of the sea of Chinnereth, beyond the Jordan on the eastern side
    28: This is the possession of the sons of Gad, by their families, in their cities and villages
    29: He also gave, to the one half tribe of Manasseh and to his sons, a possession according to their families
    30: the beginning of which is this: from Mahanaim, all of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Og, the king of Bashan, and all the villages of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty towns
    31: and one half part of Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, the cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, to the sons of Machir, the son of Manasseh, to one half part of the sons of Machir, according to their families
    32: Moses divided this possession, in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan, opposite Jericho on the eastern side
    33: But to the tribe of Levi he did not give a possession. For the Lord, the God of Israel, is himself their possession, just as he spoke to him

  Chapter 14.

    1: This is what the sons of Israel possessed in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the leaders of the families, by the tribes of Israel, gave to them
    2: dividing all by lot, just as the Lord had instructed by the hand of Moses, to the nine tribes and to the one half tribe
    3: For to the two and one half tribes, Moses had given a possession beyond the Jordan, aside from the Levites, who received no land among their brothers
    4: For by succession, the sons of Joseph, in their place, were divided into two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. But the Levites did not receive another portion of land, except cities in which to live, and their suburbs, so as to feed their beasts of burden and cattle
    5: Just as the Lord had commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel did, and they divided the land
    6: And so, the sons of Judah approached Joshua at Gilgal. And Caleb, the son of Jephone, the Kenizzite, spoke to him: “You know what the Lord said to Moses, the man of God, at Kadesh-barnea, about me and you
    7: I was forty years old when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh-barnea, so that I might consider the land. And I reported to him what seemed to me to be true
    8: But my brothers, who had ascended with me, broke the heart of the people. And I nevertheless followed the Lord my God
    9: And Moses swore, on that day, saying: ‘The land that your foot has tread upon shall be your possession, and that of your sons, unto eternity. For you have followed the Lord my God.
    10: Therefore, the Lord has granted life to me, just as he promised, even to the present day. It has been forty-five years since the Lord spoke this word to Moses, when Israel was wandering through the wilderness. Today, I am eighty-five years old
    11: being just as strong as I was at that time, when I was sent to explore the land. The fortitude in me at that time continues even until today, as much to fight as to march
    12: Therefore, grant to me this mountain, which the Lord has promised in your hearing also, on which are the Anakim, and cities, great and fortified. Perhaps it may be that the Lord will be with me, and I will be able to destroy them, just as he promised to me.
    13: And Joshua blessed him, and he delivered Hebron to him as a possession
    14: And from then on, Hebron was for Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, the Kenizzite, even to the present day. For he followed the Lord, the God of Israel
    15: Previously, the name Hebron was called Kiriath-Arba. Adam, the greatest among the Anakim, was laid there. And the land ceased from battles

  Chapter 15.

    1: And so, the lot of the sons of Judah, by their families, was this: from the border of Edom, to the desert of Sin toward the south, and even to the furthest part of the southern region
    2: Its beginning was from the summit of the very salty sea, and from its bay, which looks toward the south
    3: And it extends toward the ascent of the Scorpion, and it passes on to Sinai. And it ascends into Kadesh-barnea, and it passes through to Hezron, ascending to Addar, and encompassing Karka
    4: And from there, it passes on to Azmon, and reaches to the torrent of Egypt. And its boundary shall be the great sea; this shall be the limit of the southern region
    5: Yet truly, toward the east, the beginning shall be the very salty sea, even to the limit of the Jordan, and that which looks toward the north, from the bay of the sea, even to the same river Jordan
    6: And the border ascends into Beth-hoglah, and it crosses from the north into Beth-Arabah, ascending to the stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben
    7: And it reaches as far as the borders of Debara, from the Valley of Achor, to the north, looking toward Gilgal, which is opposite the Ascent of Adummim, on the southern part of the torrent. And it crosses the waters that are called the Fountain of the Sun. And its exit shall be at the Fountain of Rogel
    8: And it ascends by the steep valley of the son of Hinnom, from the side of the Jebusite, toward the south; this is Jerusalem. And from there, it raises itself to the top of the mountain, which is opposite Geennom to the west, at the top of the Valley of the Rephaim, to the north
    9: And it passes through, from the top of the mountain, even to the fountain of the Water of Nephtoah. And it continues on, as far as the villages of mount Ephron. And it inclines toward Baalah, which is Kiriath-jearim, that is, the City of Forests
    10: And it circles from Baalah, to the west, as far as mount Seir. And it passes by the side of mount Jearim, to the north, into Chesalon. And it descends into Beth-shemesh, and it passes through to Timnah
    11: And it continues on, toward the north, to a region beside Ekron. And it inclines toward Shikkeron, and it crosses to mount Baalah. And it extends into Jabneel, and the last part closes at the west with the great sea
    12: These are the borders of the sons of Judah, in their families, on all sides
    13: Yet truly, to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, he gave a portion in the midst of the sons of Judah, just as the Lord had instructed him: the City of Arba, the father of Anak, which is Hebron
    14: And Caleb destroyed from it the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, of the stock of Anak
    15: And ascending further from there, he came to the inhabitants of Debir, which before was called Kiriath-Sepher, that is, the City of Letters
    16: And Caleb said, “Whoever will have struck down Kiriath-Sepher, and will have seized it, I will give to him Achsah, my daughter, as wife.
    17: And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, seized it. And he gave him Achsah, his daughter, as wife
    18: And as they were traveling together, she was urged by her husband that she ask her father for a field. And she sighed, as she was sitting on her donkey. And Caleb said to her, “What is it?
    19: But she answered: “Give a blessing to me. You have given to me a southern and dry land; join to it also a watered land.” And so Caleb gave to her the watered land above and below it
    20: This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Judah, by their families
    21: And the cities, from the furthest parts of the sons of Judah, beside the borders of Edom to the south, were: Kabzeel and Eder and Jagur
    22: and Kinah and Dimonah and Adadah
    23: and Kadesh and Hazor and Ithnan
    24: Ziph and Telem and Bealoth
    25: new Hazor and Kerioth-Hezron, which is Hazor
    26: Amam, Shema, and Moladah
    27: and Hazar-gaddah and Heshmon and Bethpelet
    28: and Hazar-shual and Beersheba and Biziothiah
    29: and Baalah and Iim and Ezem
    30: and Eltolad and Chesil and Hormah
    31: and Ziklag and Madmannah and Sansannah
    32: Lebaoth and Shilhim, and Ain and Rimmon. All the cities were twenty-nine, and their villages
    33: Truly, in the plains, there were: Eshtaol and Zorah and Ashnah
    34: and Zanoah and Engannim, and Tappuah and Enam
    35: and Jarmuth and Adullam, Socoh and Azekah
    36: and Shaaraim and Adithaim, and Gederah and Gederothaim: fourteen cities, and their villages
    37: Zenan and Hadashah and Middalgad
    38: Dilean and Mizpeh and Joktheel
    39: Lachish and Bozkath and Eglon
    40: Cabbon and Lahmam and Chitlish
    41: and Gederoth and Bethdagon, and Naamah and Makkedah: sixteen cities, and their villages
    42: Libnah and Ether and Ashan
    43: Iphtah and Ashnah and Nezib
    44: and Keilah and Achzib and Mareshah: nine cities, and their villages
    45: Ekron, with its towns and villages
    46: from Ekron, as far as the sea, all that inclines toward Ashdod, and its villages
    47: Ashdod, with its towns and villages. Gaza, with its towns and villages, as far as the torrent of Egypt, with the great sea as its border
    48: And on the mountain, Shamir and Jattir and Socoh
    49: and Dannah, and Kiriath-Sannah, which is Debir
    50: Anab and Eshtemoh and Anim
    51: Goshen and Holon and Giloh: eleven cities, and their villages
    52: Arab and Dumah and Eshan
    53: and Janim and Beth-Tappuah and Aphekah
    54: Humtah and Kiriath-Arba, which is Hebron, and Zior: nine cities, and their villages
    55: Maon and Carmel, and Ziph and Juttah
    56: Jezreel and Jokdeam and Zanoah
    57: Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah: ten cities, and their villages
    58: Halhul and Bethzur and Gedor
    59: Maarath and Bethanoth and Eltekon: six cities, and their villages
    60: Kiriath-baal, which is Kiriath-jearim, the City of Forests, and Rabbah: two cities, and their villages
    61: In the desert: Beth-Arabah, Middin, and Secacah
    62: and Nibshan, and the City of Salt, and Engedi: six cities, and their villages
    63: But the sons of Judah were not able to destroy the Jebusite inhabitants of Jerusalem. And so the Jebusite lived with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem, even to the present day

  Chapter 16.

    1: Similarly, the lot of the sons of Joseph fell from the Jordan, opposite Jericho and its waters, to the east, to the wilderness that ascends from Jericho to the mountain of Bethel
    2: And it goes out from Bethel to Luz. And it crosses the border of Archi to Ataroth
    3: And it descends to the west, beside the border of Japhleti, as far as the borders of lower Beth-horon, and to Gezer. And the last parts of its regions are by the great sea
    4: And Manasseh and Ephraim, the sons of Joseph, possessed it
    5: And the border of the sons of Ephraim was made by their families. And their possession toward the east was from Ataroth-addar, as far as upper Beth-horon
    6: and the confines extend to the sea. Yet truly, Michmethath looks toward the north, and it circles around the borders, toward the east, into Taanath-shiloh. And it continues on, from the east, to Janoah
    7: And it descends from Janoah to Ataroth and Naarah. and it continues to Jericho, and it extends to the Jordan
    8: From Tappuah, it passes on, opposite the sea, into the Valley of Reeds. And its exit is at the very salty sea. This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim, by their families
    9: And there were cities, with their villages, which were set aside for the sons of Ephraim, in the midst of the possession of the sons of Manasseh
    10: And the sons of Ephraim did not put to death the Canaanite that was living at Gezer. And the Canaanite lived in the midst of Ephraim, even to this day, paying tribute

End of day 52.