Day 51:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And when these things were heard, all the kings across the Jordan, who lived among the mountains and plains, along the coastline and shores of the great sea, also those who were living near Lebanon, the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite
    2: gathered themselves together, so that they might fight against Joshua and Israel, with one mind and with the same resolve
    3: But those who were living in Gibeon, hearing all that Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai
    4: planning cleverly, took for themselves provisions, placing old sacks upon their donkeys, and wineskins that had torn and been sewed up
    5: and having very old shoes, which had been sewn with patches indicating their age, and being clothed in old garments, having also loaves, which they carried as food for the journey, which were hard and broken into pieces
    6: And they traveled to Joshua, who at that time was staying in the camp at Gilgal. And they said to him, and to all of Israel with him, “We have come from a far away land, desiring to make peace with you.” And the sons of Israel responded to them, and said
    7: “Perhaps instead, you live in the land which ought to be ours by lot, and we would be unable to form a pact with you.
    8: But they said to Joshua, “We are your servants.” And Joshua said to them: “But who are you? And where are you from?
    9: They responded: “Your servants have arrived, from a very far away land, in the name of the Lord, your God. For we have heard about the fame of his power, all the things that he has done in Egypt
    10: and to the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan: Sihon, the king of Heshbon, and Og, the king of Bashan, who was at Ashtaroth
    11: And our elders, and all the inhabitants of our land, have said to us: ‘Take in hand provisions for the very long journey, and meet with them, and say: We are your servants; form a pact with us.
    12: Lo, the loaves were taken up warm when we departed from our houses, so that we might come to you. Now they have become dry and broken, due to age
    13: These wineskins were new when we filled them, now they are torn and broken. The garments we are wearing, and the shoes we have on our feet, due to the great length of the distance, have become worn and are nearly consumed.
    14: And so they accepted this, because of their provisions, and they did not consult the mouth of the Lord
    15: And Joshua made peace with them, and entering into a pact, he promised that they would not be put to death. The leaders of the multitude also swore to them
    16: Then, three days after the pact was formed, they heard that they lived in the vicinity, and that they would soon be among them
    17: And so the sons of Israel moved the camp, and they arrived at their cities on the third day, those which are called: Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kiriath-jearim
    18: And they did not strike them, because the leaders of the multitude had sworn to them in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. And so all of the common people murmured against the leaders
    19: And they responded to them: “We have sworn to them in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, and for that reason, we are not able to touch them
    20: But we shall do this to them: Certainly, let them be preserved so that they may live, lest the wrath of the Lord be stirred up against us, since we would have sworn falsely
    21: But though they live, let them serve the entire multitude by cutting wood and carrying water.” And while they were discussing these things
    22: Joshua called the Gibeonites, and he said to them: “Why would you be willing to deceive us by fraud, saying, ‘We live very far away from you,’ when you are in our midst
    23: Therefore, you shall be under a curse, and your stock shall not cease to be cutters of wood and carriers of water, into the house of my God.
    24: And they responded: “It was reported to us, your servants, that the Lord your God had promised his servant Moses that he would give you the entire land, and that he would destroy all its inhabitants. Therefore, we were very afraid, and we made a provision for our lives, compelled by the dread of you, and we undertook this counsel
    25: And now we are in your hand. Act toward us as it seems good and right to you.
    26: Therefore, Joshua did just as he had said, and he freed them from the hand of the sons of Israel, so that they would not be killed
    27: And he decreed on that day, that they would be in the ministry of all the people and of the altar of the Lord, cutting wood and carrying water, even until this present time, in the place which the Lord had chosen

  Chapter 10.

    1: When Adonizedek, the king of Jerusalem, had heard these things, specifically, that Joshua had seized Ai, and had overthrown it, (for just as he had done to Jericho and its king, so did he do to Ai and its king,) and that the Gibeonites had fled over to Israel, and were now their confederates
    2: he was very afraid. For Gibeon was a great city, and was one of the royal cities, and was greater than the town of Ai, and all its warriors were very strong
    3: Therefore, Adonizedek, the king of Jerusalem, sent to Hoham, the king of Hebron, and to Piram, the king of Jarmuth, and also to Japhia, the king of Lachish, and to Debir, the king of Eglon, saying
    4: “Ascend to me, and bring troops, so that we may fight against Gibeon. For it has fled over to Joshua and the sons of Israel.
    5: And so, having assembled, the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon, together with their armies, went up and encamped around Gibeon, laying siege to it
    6: But the inhabitants of the city of Gibeon, when it was besieged, sent to Joshua, who was then staying in the camp at Gilgal. And they said to him: “May you not draw back your hands from helping your servants. Come quickly, and free us, and bring troops. For all the kings of the Amorites, who live in the mountains, have gathered together against us.
    7: And Joshua ascended from Gilgal, and the entire army of warriors with him, very strong men
    8: And the Lord said to Joshua: “You should not fear them. For I have delivered them into your hands. None of them will be able to withstand you.
    9: And so Joshua, ascending from Gilgal throughout the night, rushed upon them suddenly
    10: And the Lord set them in disarray before the face of Israel. And he crushed them in a great defeat at Gibeon, and he pursued them along the way of the ascent to Beth-horon, and he struck them down, even as far as Azekah and Makkedah
    11: And while they were fleeing from the sons of Israel, and were on the descent of Beth-horon, the Lord cast great stones from heaven upon them, as far as Azekah. And many more were killed by the hailstones, than were struck down by the swords of the sons of Israel
    12: Then Joshua spoke to the Lord, on the day that he handed over the Amorite in the sight of the sons of Israel, and he said before them: “O sun, you shall not move toward Gibeon! O moon, you shall not move toward the valley of Aijalon!
    13: And the sun and the moon stood still, until the people had avenged themselves of their enemies. Has this not been written in the book of the just? And so the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and it did not hurry to its rest for the space of one day
    14: Never before and never after was there so long a day, as when the Lord obeyed the voice of a man, and fought for Israel
    15: And Joshua returned, with all of Israel, into the camp of Gilgal
    16: For the five kings had fled, and had hidden themselves in a cave, near the city of Makkedah
    17: And it was reported to Joshua that the five kings had been found hidden in a cave, near the city of Makkedah
    18: And he instructed his companions and said: “Roll vast stones to the mouth of the cave, and station attentive men who will keep them closed
    19: But as for you, do not stay here; instead, pursue the enemies, and cut down the lattermost of those who are fleeing. You shall not permit those whom the Lord God has delivered into your hands to enter into the protection of their cities.
    20: Thus, the adversaries were struck down in a great defeat, and having been nearly consumed, even to utter annihilation, those who were able to escape from Israel entered into fortified cities
    21: And the entire army returned to Joshua at Makkedah, where they were then encamped, in good health and in their full numbers. And no one dared to move his tongue against the sons of Israel
    22: And Joshua instructed, saying, “Open the mouth of the cave, and bring forward to me the five kings, who are hidden within it.
    23: And the ministers did just as they had been ordered. And they led out to him the five kings from the cave: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon
    24: And when they had been led out to him, he called all the men of Israel, and he said to the leaders of the army who were with him, “Go, and place your feet upon the necks of these kings.” And when they had gone and had tread their feet upon the necks of those who were thrown down
    25: he spoke to them again: “Do not be afraid, and do not dread. Be strengthened and be steadfast. For so will the Lord do to all your enemies, against whom you fight.
    26: And Joshua struck them down and killed them, and he suspended them on five gallows. And they hung there until evening
    27: And when the sun had set, he instructed his assistants that they should take them down from the gallows. And having been taken down, they cast them into the cave, where they had lain hidden, and they set vast stones at its mouth, which remain, even to the present
    28: Also on the same day, Joshua seized Makkedah, and he struck it with the edge of the sword, and he put to death its king and all its inhabitants. He did not leave in it even the smallest remains. And he did to the king of Makkedah, just as he had done to the king of Jericho
    29: Then he went on, with all of Israel, from Makkedah to Libnah, and he fought against it
    30: And the Lord delivered it, with its king, into the hands of Israel. And they struck the city with the edge of the sword, and all its inhabitants. They did not leave in it any remains. And they did to the king of Libnah, just as they had done to the king of Jericho
    31: From Libnah, with all of Israel, he went on to Lachish. And taking positions around it with his army, he besieged it
    32: And the Lord delivered Lachish into the hands of Israel, and he seized it on the following day, and he struck it with the edge of the sword, and every soul that was in it, just as he had done to Libnah
    33: At that time, Horam, the king of Gezer, went up so that he might assist Lachish. And Joshua struck him with all his people, even unto utter annihilation
    34: And he went on from Lachish to Eglon, and he surrounded it
    35: And he also defeated it on the same day. And he struck all the souls that were in it with the edge of the sword, in accord with all that he had done to Lachish
    36: He also ascended, with all of Israel, from Eglon into Hebron, and he fought against it
    37: He seized it and struck it with the edge of the sword, likewise with its king, and all the towns of that region, and all the souls that were staying in it. He did not leave any remains in it. Just as he had done to Eglon, so also did he do to Hebron, consuming with the sword all that he found within it
    38: Returning from there to Debir
    39: he seized it and laid waste to it, likewise with its king. And all the surrounding towns, he struck with the edge of the sword. He did not leave in it any remains. Just as he had done to Hebron and Libnah, and to their kings, so did he do to Debir and to its king
    40: And so Joshua struck the entire land, the mountains, and the south, and the plains, and the descending slopes, with their kings. He did not leave in it any remains, but he put to death all that was able to breathe, just as the Lord, the God of Israel, had instructed him
    41: from Kadesh-barnea, as far as Gaza, with all the land of Goshen, as far as Gibeon
    42: And all their kings and their regions, he seized and destroyed with a single attack. For the Lord, the God of Israel, fought on his behalf
    43: And he returned, with all of Israel, to the place of the encampment at Gilgal

  Chapter 11.

    1: And when Jabin, the king of Hazor, had heard these things, he sent to Jobab, the king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph
    2: also to the kings of the north, who were living in the mountains, and in the plains opposite the southern region of Chinneroth, and also in the plains and the regions of Dor, beside the sea
    3: also to the Canaanites, from east to west, and to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountains, also to the Hivite who was living at the base of Hermon, in the land of Mizpah
    4: And they all went forth with their troops, a people exceedingly numerous, like the sand that is on the shore of the sea. And their horses and chariots were an immense multitude
    5: And all these kings assembled at the waters of Merom, so that they might fight against Israel
    6: And the Lord said to Joshua: “You should not fear them. For tomorrow, at this same hour, I will deliver all these to be wounded in the sight of Israel. You will hamstring their horses, and you will burn their chariots with fire.
    7: And Joshua, and the entire army with him, came against them suddenly, at the waters of Merom, and they rushed upon them
    8: And the Lord delivered them into the hands of Israel. And they struck them, and they pursued them as far as the great Sidon, and the waters of Misrephoth, and the field of Mizpeh, which is toward the eastern region. He struck them all, so that nothing was left of them to remain
    9: And he did just as the Lord had instructed him. He hamstrung their horses, and he burned their chariots with fire
    10: And turning back, he immediately seized Hazor. And he struck down its king with the sword. For Hazor, from antiquity, held the first position among all these kingdoms
    11: And he struck down all the souls that were staying there. He did not leave in it any remains, but he destroyed everything unto utter annihilation, and he destroyed the city itself with fire
    12: And he seized, struck, and destroyed all the surrounding cities and their kings, just as Moses, the servant of God, had instructed him
    13: And except for the cities that were on hills and in elevated places, the rest Israel burned. One only, highly-fortified Hazor, was consumed with fire
    14: And the sons of Israel divided among themselves all the plunder of these cities, and the cattle, putting to death all persons
    15: Just as the Lord had instructed his servant Moses, so did Moses instruct Joshua, and he fulfilled everything. He did not omit even one word out of all the commandments, which the Lord had commanded Moses
    16: And so Joshua seized the entire land of the mountains, and of the south, and the land of Goshen, and the plains, and the western region, and the mountain of Israel, and its plains
    17: As for the part of the mountain that ascends to Seir, as far as Baalgad, along the plain of Lebanon under mount Hermon, all their kings he seized, struck down, and killed
    18: For a long time, Joshua fought against these kings
    19: There was not a city that delivered itself to the sons of Israel, except the Hivites who were living at Gibeon. For he seized it all in warfare
    20: For it was the sentence of the Lord that their hearts would be hardened, and that they would fight against Israel and fall, and that they did not deserve any clemency, and that they should perish, just as the Lord had commanded Moses
    21: In that time, Joshua went and put to death the Anakim from the mountains, from Hebron and Debir and Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah and Israel. And he destroyed their cities
    22: He did not leave any from the stock of the Anakim in the land of the sons of Israel, except the cities of Gaza, and Gath, and Ashdod, which alone were left behind
    23: Thus, Joshua seized all the land, just as the Lord spoke to Moses, and he delivered it as a possession to the sons of Israel, according to their divisions and tribes. And the land rested from battles

  Chapter 12.

    1: These are the kings whom the sons of Israel struck down, and whose land they possessed beyond the Jordan, toward the rising of the sun, from the torrent Arnon as far as mount Hermon, with the entire eastern region that looks out toward the wilderness
    2: Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon, and who had dominion from Aroer, which is situated on the bank of the torrent Arnon, and the valley in the middle, and one half of Gilead, as far as the torrent Jabbok, which is the border of the sons of Ammon
    3: and from the wilderness, as far as the sea of Chinneroth toward the east, and to the Sea of the Wilderness, which is the very salty sea, to the eastern region, along the way that leads to Beth-jeshimoth, and from the southern region that lies under the descending slope of Pisgah
    4: to the border of Og, the king of Bashan; from the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived in Ashtaroth, and at Edrei, and who had dominion on mount Hermon, and at Salecah, and into all of Bashan, even to its limits
    5: with Geshur and Maacati, and one half of Gilead, these were the borders of Sihon, the king of Heshbon
    6: Moses, the servant of the Lord, and the sons of Israel struck them down. And Moses delivered their land into the possession of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the one half tribe of Manasseh
    7: These are the kings of the land, whom Joshua and the sons of Israel struck down across the Jordan, toward the western region, from Baalgad in the field of Lebanon, as far as the mountain, part of which ascends to Seir. And Joshua delivered it as a possession to the tribes of Israel, to each one in their divisions
    8: both in the mountains and in the plains and fields. In the descending slopes, and in the wilderness, and in the south, there too was the Hittite and the Amorite, the Canaanite and the Perizzite, the Hivite and the Jebusite
    9: The king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one
    10: the king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one
    11: the king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one
    12: the king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one
    13: the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one
    14: the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one
    15: the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one
    16: the king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one
    17: the king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one
    18: the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one
    19: the king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one
    20: the king of Shimron, one; the king of Achshaph, one
    21: the king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one
    22: the king of Kadesh, one; the king of Jokneam of Carmel, one
    23: the king of Dor and of the province of Dor, one; the king of the nations of Gilgal, one
    24: the king of Tirzah, one. All the kings were thirty-one

End of day 51.