Day 148:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['49', '50', '51', '52']:

  Chapter 49.

    1: A Psalm of Asaph. The God of gods, the Lord has spoken, and he has called the earth, from the rising of the sun even to its setting
    2: from Zion, the brilliance of his beauty
    3: God will arrive manifestly. Our God also will not keep silence. A fire will flare up in his sight, and a mighty tempest will surround him
    4: He will call to heaven from above, and to the earth, to discern his people
    5: Gather his holy ones to him, you who order his covenant above sacrifices
    6: And the heavens will announce his justice. For God is the judge
    7: Listen, my people, and I will speak. Listen, Israel, and I will testify for you. I am God, your God
    8: I will not reprove you for your sacrifices. Moreover, your holocausts are ever in my sight
    9: I will not accept calves from your house, nor he-goats from your flocks
    10: For all the wild beasts of the forest are mine: the cattle on the hills and the oxen
    11: I know all the flying things of the air, and the beauty of the field is with me
    12: If I should be hungry, I would not tell you: for the whole world is mine, and all its plentitude
    13: Shall I gnaw on the flesh of bulls? Or would I drink the blood of goats
    14: Offer to God the sacrifice of praise, and pay your vows to the Most High
    15: And call upon me in the day of tribulation. I will rescue you, and you will honor me
    16: But to the sinner, God has said: Why do you discourse on my justices, and take up my covenant through your mouth
    17: Truly, you have hated discipline, and you have cast my sermons behind you
    18: If you saw a thief, you ran with him, and you have placed your portion with adulterers
    19: Your mouth has abounded with malice, and your tongue has concocted deceits
    20: Sitting, you spoke against your brother, and you set up a scandal against your mother’s son
    21: These things you have done, and I was silent. You thought, unjustly, that I ought to be like you. But I will reprove you, and I will set myself against your face
    22: Understand these things, you who forget God; lest at any time, he might quickly take you away, and there would be no one to rescue you
    23: The sacrifice of praise will honor me. And in that place is the journey by which I will reveal to him the salvation of God

  Chapter 50.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: when Nathan the prophet came to him, after he went to Bathsheba
    3: Be merciful to me, O God, according to your great mercy. And, according to the plentitude of your compassion, wipe out my iniquity
    4: Wash me once again from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin
    5: For I know my iniquity, and my sin is ever before me
    6: Against you only have I sinned, and I have done evil before your eyes. And so, you are justified in your words, and you will prevail when you give judgment
    7: For behold, I was conceived in iniquities, and in sinfulness did my mother conceive me
    8: For behold, you have loved truth. The obscure and hidden things of your wisdom, you have manifested to me
    9: You will sprinkle me with hyssop, and I will be cleansed. You will wash me, and I will be made whiter than snow
    10: In my hearing, you will grant gladness and rejoicing. And the bones that have been humbled will exult
    11: Turn your face away from my sins, and erase all my iniquities
    12: Create a clean heart in me, O God. And renew an upright spirit within my inmost being
    13: Do not cast me away from your face; and do not take your Holy Spirit from me
    14: Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and confirm me with an unsurpassed spirit
    15: I will teach the unjust your ways, and the impious will be converted to you
    16: Free me from blood, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue will extol your justice
    17: O Lord, you will open my lips, and my mouth will announce your praise
    18: For if you had desired sacrifice, I would certainly have given it, but with holocausts, you will not be delighted
    19: A crushed spirit is a sacrifice to God. A contrite and humbled heart, O God, you will not spurn
    20: Act kindly, Lord, in your good will toward Zion, so that the walls of Jerusalem may be built up
    21: Then you will accept the sacrifice of justice, oblations, and holocausts. Then they will lay calves upon your altar

  Chapter 51.

    1: Unto the end. The understanding of David
    2: When Doeg the Edomite came and reported to Saul, David went to the house of Ahimelech
    3: Why do you glory in malice, you who are powerful in iniquity
    4: All day long your tongue thinks up injustice. Like a sharp razor, you have wrought deceit
    5: You have loved malice above goodness, and iniquity more than speaking righteousness
    6: You have loved all precipitous words, you deceitful tongue
    7: Because of this, God will destroy you in the end. He will pull you up, and he will remove you from your tabernacle and your root from the land of the living
    8: The just will see and be afraid, and they will laugh over him, and say
    9: “Behold the man who did not set God as his helper. But he hoped in the multitude of his riches, and so he prevailed in his emptiness.
    10: But I, like a fruitful olive tree in the house of God, have hoped in the mercy of God unto eternity, and forever and ever
    11: I will confess to you forever, because you have accomplished it. And I will wait on your name, for it is good in the sight of your saints

  Chapter 52.

    1: Unto the end. For Mahalath: the thoughts of David. The fool has said in his heart, “There is no God.
    2: They were corrupted, and they became abominable with iniquities. There is no one who does good
    3: God gazed down from heaven on the sons of men, to see if there were any who were considering or seeking God
    4: All have gone astray; together they have become useless. There is no one who does good; there is not even one
    5: Will they never learn: all those who work iniquity, who devour my people like a meal of bread
    6: They have not called upon God. In that place, they have trembled in fear, where there was no fear. For God has scattered the bones of those who please men. They have been confounded, because God has spurned them
    7: Who will grant from Zion the salvation of Israel? Jacob will exult, when God will convert the captivity of his people; and Israel will rejoice

End of day 148.