Day 164:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['113', '114', '115', '116']:

  Chapter 113.

    1: Alleluia. At the departure of Israel from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a barbarous people
    2: Judea was made his sanctuary; Israel was made his power
    3: The sea looked, and it fled. The Jordan was turned back again
    4: The mountains exulted like rams, and the hills like lambs among the sheep
    5: What happened to you, O sea, so that you fled, and to you, O Jordan, so that you were turned back again
    6: What happened to you, O mountains, so that you exulted like rams, and to you, O hills, so that you exulted like lambs among the sheep
    7: Before the face of the Lord, the earth was moved, before the face of the God of Jacob
    8: He converted the rock into pools of water, and the cliff into fountains of waters
    9: Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory
    10: Give glory to your mercy and your truth, lest the Gentiles should say, “Where is their God?
    11: But our God is in heaven. All things whatsoever that he has willed, he has done
    12: The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of the hands of men
    13: They have mouths, and do not speak; they have eyes, and do not see
    14: They have ears, and do not hear; they have noses, and do not smell
    15: They have hands, and do not feel; they have feet, and do not walk. Neither will they cry out with their throat
    16: Let those who make them become like them, along with all who trust in them
    17: The house of Israel has hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector
    18: The house of Aaron has hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector
    19: Those who fear the Lord have hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector
    20: The Lord has been mindful of us, and he has blessed us. He has blessed the house of Israel. He has blessed the house of Aaron
    21: He has blessed all who fear the Lord, the small with the great
    22: May the Lord add blessings upon you: upon you, and upon your sons
    23: Blessed are you by the Lord, who made heaven and earth
    24: The heaven of heaven is for the Lord, but the earth he has given to the sons of men
    25: The dead will not praise you, Lord, and neither will all those who descend into Hell
    26: But we who live will bless the Lord, from this time forward, and even forever

  Chapter 114.

    1: Alleluia. I have loved: therefore, the Lord will heed the voice of my prayer
    2: For he has inclined his ear to me. And in my days, I will call upon him
    3: The sorrows of death have surrounded me, and the perils of Hell have found me. I have found tribulation and sorrow
    4: And so, I called upon the name of the Lord. O Lord, free my soul
    5: Merciful is the Lord, and just. And our God is compassionate
    6: The Lord is the keeper of little ones. I was humbled, and he freed me
    7: Turn again, my soul, to your rest. For the Lord has done good to you
    8: For he has rescued my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from slipping
    9: I will please the Lord in the land of the living

  Chapter 115.

    1: Alleluia. I had confidence, because of what I was saying, but then I was greatly humbled
    2: I said in my excess, “Every man is a liar.
    3: What shall I repay to the Lord, for all the things that he has repaid to me
    4: I will take up the cup of salvation, and I will call upon the name of the Lord
    5: I will repay my vows to the Lord, in the sight of all his people
    6: Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his holy ones
    7: O Lord, because I am your servant, your servant and the son of your handmaid, you have broken my bonds
    8: I will sacrifice to you the sacrifice of praise, and I will invoke the name of the Lord
    9: I will repay my vows to the Lord in the sight of all his people
    10: in the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem

  Chapter 116.

    1: Alleluia. All nations, praise the Lord. All peoples, praise him
    2: For his mercy has been confirmed over us. And the truth of the Lord remains for all eternity

End of day 164.