Day 153:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['69', '70', '71', '72']:

  Chapter 69.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David, in remembrance that the Lord had saved him
    2: O God, reach out to help me. O Lord, hasten to assist me
    3: May those who seek my soul be confounded and awed
    4: May those who wish evils upon me be turned back and blush with shame. May they be turned away immediately, blushing with shame, who say to me: “Well, well.
    5: Let all who seek you exult and rejoice in you, and let those who love your salvation forever say: “The Lord be magnified.
    6: I am truly destitute and poor. O God, assist me. You are my helper and my deliverer. O Lord, do not delay

  Chapter 70.

    1: A Psalm of David. Of the sons of Jonadab and the former captives. In you, O Lord, I have hoped; do not let me be brought to ruin forever
    2: Free me by your justice, and rescue me. Incline your ear to me, and save me
    3: Be a God of protection and a place of strength for me, so that you may accomplish my salvation. For you are my firmament and my refuge
    4: Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the sinner, and from the hand of the unjust and those who act against the law
    5: For you, O Lord, are my patience: my hope from my youth, O Lord
    6: In you, I have been confirmed from conception. From my mother’s womb, you are my protector. In you, I will sing forever
    7: I have become to many as if I were a portent, but you are a strong helper
    8: Let my mouth be filled with praise, so that I may sing your glory, your greatness all day long
    9: Do not cast me off in the time of old age. Do not abandon me when my strength will fail
    10: For my enemies have spoken against me. And those who watched for my soul have taken counsel as one
    11: saying: “God has abandoned him. Pursue and overtake him. For there is no one to rescue him.
    12: O God, do not be far from me. O my God, provide for my assistance
    13: May they be confounded, and may they fail, who drag down my soul. Let them be covered with confusion and shame, who seek evils for me
    14: But I will always have hope. And I will add more to all your praise
    15: My mouth will announce your justice, your salvation all day long. For I have not known letters
    16: I will enter into the powers of the Lord. I will be mindful of your justice alone, O Lord
    17: You have taught me from my youth, O God. And so I will declare your wonders continuously
    18: even in old age and with grey hairs. Do not abandon me, O God, while I announce your arm to every future generation: your powe
    19: and your justice, O God, even to the highest great things that you have done. O God, who is like you
    20: How great is the tribulation that you have revealed to me: very great and evil. And so, turning back, you have brought me to life, and you have led me back again from the abyss of the earth
    21: You have multiplied your magnificence. And so, turning back to me, you have consoled me
    22: Therefore, I will confess your truth to you, with the instruments of the Psalter. O God, I will sing psalms to you with stringed instruments, O Holy One of Israel
    23: My lips will exult, when I sing to you, and also my soul, which you have redeemed
    24: And even my tongue will meditate on your justice all day long, when those who seek evils for me have been confounded and set in awe

  Chapter 71.

    1: A Psalm according to Solomon
    2: Give your judgment, O God, to the king, and your justice to the king’s son, to judge your people with justice and your poor with judgment
    3: Let the mountains take up peace for the people, and the hills, justice
    4: He will judge the poor of the people, and he will bring salvation to the sons of the poor. And he will humble the false accuser
    5: And he will remain, with the sun and before the moon, from generation to generation
    6: He will descend like rain upon fleece, and like showers showering upon the earth
    7: In his days, justice will rise like the sun, with abundance of peace, until the moon is taken away
    8: And he will rule from sea to sea and from the river to the limits of the whole world
    9: In his sight, the Ethiopians will fall prostrate, and his enemies will lick the ground
    10: The kings of Tarshish and the islands will offer gifts. The kings of Arabia and of Seba will bring gifts
    11: And all the kings of the earth shall adore him. All nations will serve him
    12: For he will free the poor from the powerful, and the poor one who has no helper
    13: He will spare the poor and the indigent, and he will bring salvation to the souls of the poor
    14: He will redeem their souls from usuries and from iniquity, and their names shall be honorable in his sight
    15: And he will live, and to him will be given from the gold of Arabia, and by him they will always adore. They will bless him all day long
    16: And there will be a firmament on earth, at the summits of mountains: its fruits will be extolled above Lebanon, and those of the city will flourish like the grass of the earth
    17: May his name be blessed forever; may his name remain before the sun. And all the tribes of the earth will be blessed in him. All nations will magnify him
    18: Blessed is the Lord, God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things
    19: And blessed is the name of his majesty in eternity. And all the earth will be filled with his majesty. Amen. Amen
    20: The praises of David, the son of Jesse, have reached an end

  Chapter 72.

    1: A Psalm of Asaph. How good is God to Israel, to those who are upright in heart
    2: But my feet were nearly moved; my steps had nearly slipped
    3: For I was zealous over the iniquitous, seeing the peacefulness of sinners
    4: For they have no respect for their death, nor do they have support in their wounds
    5: They are not with the hardships of men, nor will they be scourged with men
    6: Therefore, arrogance has held on to them. They have been covered with their iniquity and impiety
    7: Their iniquity has proceeded, as if from fat. They have parted from the affection of the heart
    8: They have thought and spoken wickedness. They have spoken iniquity in high places
    9: They have set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue has traversed the earth
    10: Therefore, my people will be converted here, and fullness of days will be found in them
    11: And they said, “How would God know?” and, “Isn’t there knowledge in high places?
    12: Behold, these are sinners, and, abounding in this age, they have obtained riches
    13: And I said: So then, it is without purpose that I have justified my heart and washed my hands among the innocent
    14: And I have been scourged all day long, and I have received my chastisement in the mornings
    15: If I were to say that I would explain this: Behold, I would condemn this nation of your sons
    16: I considered, so that I might know this. It is a hardship before me
    17: until I may enter into the Sanctuary of God, and understand it to its last part
    18: So, because of deceitfulness, truly, you have placed it before them. While they were being lifted up, you were casting them down
    19: How have they been brought to desolation? They have suddenly failed. They have perished because of their iniquity
    20: As a dream is to those who awaken, O Lord, so will you reduce their image to nothing in your city
    21: For my heart has been inflamed, and my temperament has been changed
    22: And so, I have been reduced to nothing, and I did not know it
    23: I have become like a beast of burden to you, and I am always with you
    24: You have held my right hand. And in your will, you have conducted me, and with your glory, you have taken me up
    25: For what is there for me in heaven? And what do I wish for on earth before you
    26: My body has failed, and my heart: O God of my heart, and God my portion, into eternity
    27: For behold, those who put themselves far from you will perish. You have perished all those who fornicate away from you
    28: But it is good for me to adhere to God, to put my hope in the Lord God, so that I may announce all your prophecies, at the gates of the daughter of Zion

End of day 153.