Day 3:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And God blessed Noah and his sons. And he said to them: “Increase, and multiply, and fill the earth
    2: And let the fear and trembling of you be upon all the animals of the earth, and upon all the birds of the air, along with all that moves across the earth. All the fish of the sea have been delivered into your hand
    3: And everything that moves and lives will be food for you. Just as with the edible plants, I have delivered them all to you
    4: except that flesh with blood you shall not eat
    5: For I will examine the blood of your lives at the hand of every beast. So also, at the hand of mankind, at the hand of each man and his brother, I will examine the life of mankind
    6: Whoever will shed human blood, his blood will be poured out. For man was indeed made to the image of God
    7: But as for you: increase and multiply, and go forth upon the earth and fulfill it.
    8: To Noah and to his sons with him, God also said this
    9: “Behold, I will establish my covenant with you, and with your offspring after you
    10: and with every living soul that is with you: as much with the birds as with the cattle and all the animals of the earth that have gone forth from the ark, and with all the wild beasts of the earth
    11: I will establish my covenant with you, and no longer will all that is flesh be put to death by the waters of a great flood, and, henceforth, there will not be a great flood to utterly destroy the earth.
    12: And God said: “This is the sign of the pact that I grant between me and you, and to every living soul that is with you, for perpetual generations
    13: I will place my arc in the clouds, and it will be the sign of the pact between myself and the earth
    14: And when I obscure the sky with clouds, my arc will appear in the clouds
    15: And I will remember my covenant with you, and with every living soul that enlivens flesh. And there will no longer be waters from a great flood to wipe away all that is flesh
    16: And the arc will be in the clouds, and I will see it, and I will remember the everlasting covenant that was enacted between God and every living soul of all that is flesh upon the earth.
    17: And God said to Noah, “This will be the sign of the covenant that I have established between myself and all that is flesh upon the earth.
    18: And so the sons of Noah, who came out of the ark, were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Now Ham himself is the father of Canaan
    19: These three are the sons of Noah. And from these all the family of mankind was spread over the whole earth
    20: And Noah, a good farmer, began to cultivate the land, and he planted a vineyard
    21: And by drinking its wine, he became inebriated and was naked in his tent
    22: Because of this, when Ham, the father of Canaan, had indeed seen the privates of his father to be naked, he reported it to his two brothers outside
    23: And truly, Shem and Japheth put a cloak upon their arms, and, advancing backwards, covered the privates of their father. And their faces were turned away, so that they did not see their father’s manhood
    24: Then Noah, awaking from the wine, when he had learned what his younger son had done to him
    25: he said, “Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants will he be to his brothers.
    26: And he said: “Blessed be the Lord God of Shem, let Canaan be his servant
    27: May God enlarge Japheth, and may he live in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant.
    28: And after the great flood, Noah lived for three hundred and fifty years
    29: And all his days were completed in nine hundred and fifty years, and then he died

  Chapter 10.

    1: These are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and of the sons who were born to them after the great flood
    2: The sons of Japheth were Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras
    3: And then the sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah
    4: And the sons of Javan were Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim
    5: The islands of the Gentiles were divided by these into their regions, each one according to his tongue, and their families in their nations
    6: And the Sons of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan
    7: And the sons of Cush were Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dadan
    8: And then Cush conceived Nimrod; he began to be powerful on the earth
    9: And he was an able hunter before the Lord. From this, a proverb came forth: ‘Just like Nimrod, an able hunter before the Lord.
    10: And so, the beginning of his kingdom was Babylon, and Erech, and Accad, and Chalanne, in the land of Shinar
    11: From that land, Assur came forth, and he built Nineveh, and the streets of the city, and Calah
    12: and also Resen, between Nineveh and Calah. This is a great city
    13: And truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, Naphtuhim
    14: and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, from whom came forth the Philistines and the Caphtorim
    15: Then Canaan conceived Sidon his firstborn, the Hittite
    16: and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, the Girgashite
    17: the Hivite, and the Arkite: the Sinite
    18: and the Arvadian, the Samarite, and the Hamathite. And after this, the peoples of the Canaanites became widespread
    19: And the borders of Canaan went, as one travels, from Sidon to Gerar, even to Gaza, until one enters Sodom and Gomorrah, and from Admah and Zeboiim, even to Lesa
    20: These are the sons of Ham in their kindred, and tongues, and generations, and lands, and nations
    21: Likewise, from Shem, the father of all the sons of Heber, the elder brother of Japheth, sons were born
    22: The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram
    23: The sons of Aram were Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash
    24: But truly, Arphaxad conceived Shelah, from whom was born Eber
    25: And to Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth became divided, and his brother’s name was Joktan
    26: This Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, Jera
    27: and Hadoram, and Uzal and Diklah
    28: and Obal and Abimael, Sheb
    29: and Ophir, and Havilah and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan
    30: And their habitation extended from Messa, as one sojourns, even to Sephar, a mountain in the east
    31: These are the sons of Shem according to their kindred, and tongues, and the regions within their nations
    32: These are the families of Noah, according to their peoples and nations. The nations became divided according to these, on the earth after the great flood

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now the earth was of one language and of the same speech
    2: And when they were advancing from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt in it
    3: And each one said to his neighbor, “Come, let us make bricks, and bake them with fire.” And they had bricks instead of stones, and pitch instead of mortar
    4: And they said: “Come, let us make a city and a tower, so that its height may reach to heaven. And let us make our name famous before we are divided into all the lands.
    5: Then the Lord descended to see the city and the tower, which the sons of Adam were building
    6: And he said: “Behold, the people are united, and all have one tongue. And since they have begun to do this, they will not desist from their plans, until they have completed their work
    7: Therefore, come, let us descend, and in that place confound their tongue, so that they may not listen, each one to the voice of his neighbor.
    8: And so the Lord divided them from that place into all the lands, and they ceased to build the city
    9: And for this reason, its name was called ‘Babel,’ because in that place the language of the whole earth became confused. And from then on, the Lord scattered them across the face of every region
    10: These are the generations of Shem. Shem was one hundred years old when he conceived Arphaxad, two years after the great flood
    11: And after he conceived Arphaxad, Shem lived for five hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    12: Next, Arphaxad lived for thirty-five years, and then he conceived Shelah
    13: And after he conceived Shelah, Arphaxad lived for three hundred and three years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    14: Likewise, Shelah lived for thirty years, and then he conceived Eber
    15: And after he conceived Eber, Shelah lived for four hundred and three years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    16: Then Eber lived for thirty-four years, and he conceived Peleg
    17: And after he conceived Peleg, Eber lived for four hundred and thirty years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    18: Likewise, Peleg lived for thirty years, and then he conceived Reu
    19: And after he conceived Reu, Peleg lived for two hundred and nine years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    20: Then Reu lived for thirty-two years, and then he conceived Serug
    21: Likewise, after he conceived Serug, Reu lived for two hundred and seven years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    22: In truth, Serug lived for thirty years, and then he conceived Nahor
    23: And after he conceived Nahor, Serug lived for two hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    24: And so Nahor lived for twenty-nine years, and then he conceived Terah
    25: And after he conceived Terah, Nahor lived for one hundred and nineteen years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    26: And Terah lived for seventy years, and then he conceived Abram, and Nahor, and Haran
    27: And these are the generations of Terah. Terah conceived Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Next Haran conceived Lot
    28: And Haran died before his father Terah, in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldeans
    29: Then Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram’s wife was Sarai. And the name of Nahor’s wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah
    30: But Sarai was barren and had no children
    31: And so Terah took his son Abram, and his grandson Lot, the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, the wife of his son Abram, and he led them away from Ur of the Chaldeans, to go into the land of Canaan. And they approached as far as Haran, and they dwelt there
    32: And the days of Terah that passed were two hundred and five years, and then he died in Haran

  Chapter 12.

    1: Then the Lord said to Abram: “Depart from your land, and from your kindred, and from your father’s house, and come into the land that I will show you
    2: And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and magnify your name, and you will be blessed
    3: I will bless those who bless you, and curse those who curse you, and in you all the families of the earth will be blessed.
    4: And so Abram departed just as the Lord had instructed him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran
    5: And he took his wife Sarai, and Lot, the son of his brother, and all the substance which they had come to possess, and the lives which they had acquired in Haran, and they departed in order to go to the land of Canaan. And when they arrived in it
    6: Abram passed through the land even to the place of Shechem, as far as the famous steep valley. Now at that time, the Canaanite was in the land
    7: Then the Lord appeared to Abram, and he said to him, “To your offspring, I will give this land.” And there he built an altar to the Lord, who had appeared to him
    8: And passing on from there to a mountain, which was opposite the east of Bethel, he pitched his tent there, having Bethel to the west, and Hai on the east. He also built an altar there to the Lord, and he called upon his name
    9: And Abram traveled, going out and continuing further on, toward the south
    10: But a famine occurred in the land. And Abram descended to Egypt, to sojourn there. For famine prevailed over the land
    11: And when he was close to entering Egypt, he said to his wife Sarai: “I know you to be a beautiful woman
    12: And when the Egyptians see you, they will say, ‘She is his wife.’ And they will put me to death, and retain you
    13: Therefore, I beg you to say that you are my sister, so that it may be well with me because of you, and so that my soul may live by your favor.
    14: And so, when Abram had arrived in Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was exceedingly beautiful
    15: And the princes reported it to Pharaoh, and they praised her to him. And the woman was inducted into the house of Pharaoh
    16: In truth, they treated Abram well because of her. And he had sheep and oxen and male donkeys, and men servants, and women servants, and female donkeys, and camels
    17: But the Lord scourged Pharaoh and his house with great wounds because of Sarai, the wife of Abram
    18: And Pharaoh called Abram, and he said to him: “What is this that you have done to me? Why did you not tell me she was your wife
    19: For what reason did you claim her to be your sister, so that I would take her to me as a wife? Now therefore, behold your mate, receive her and go.
    20: And Pharaoh instructed his men about Abram. And they led him away with his wife and all that he had

End of day 3.