Day 163:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['109', '110', '111', '112']:

  Chapter 109.

    1: A Psalm of David. The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.
    2: The Lord will send forth the scepter of your virtue from Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies
    3: It is with you from the beginning, in the day of your virtue, in the splendor of the saints. From conception, before the light-bearer, I begot you
    4: The Lord has sworn, and he will not repent: “You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
    5: The Lord is at your right hand. He has broken kings in the day of his wrath
    6: He will judge between the nations; he will fill up ruination. He will shatter heads in the land of the many
    7: He will drink from the torrent on the way. Because of this, he will exalt the head

  Chapter 110.

    1: Alleluia. I will confess to you, O Lord, with my whole heart, in the council of the just and in the congregation
    2: Great are the works of the Lord, exquisite in all his intentions
    3: Confession and magnificence are his work. And his justice remains from age to age
    4: He has created a memorial to his wonders; he is a merciful and compassionate Lord
    5: He has given food to those who fear him. He will be mindful of his covenant in every age
    6: He will announce the virtue of his works to his people
    7: so that he may give them the inheritance of the nations. The works of his hands are truth and judgment
    8: All his commands are faithful: confirmed from age to age, created in truth and fairness
    9: He has sent redemption upon his people. He has commanded his covenant for all eternity. Holy and terrible is his name
    10: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding is for all who do it. His praise remains from age to age

  Chapter 111.

    1: Alleluia. Of the return of Haggai and Zachariah. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord. He will prefer his commandments exceedingly
    2: His offspring will be powerful on the earth. The generation of the upright will be blessed
    3: Glory and wealth will be in his house, and his justice shall remain from age to age
    4: For the upright, a light has risen up in the darkness. He is merciful and compassionate and just
    5: Pleasing is the man who shows mercy and lends. He will order his words with judgment
    6: For he will not be disturbed in eternity
    7: The just one will be an everlasting memorial. He will not fear a report of disasters. His heart is prepared to hope in the Lord
    8: His heart has been confirmed. He will not be disturbed, until he looks down upon his enemies
    9: He has distributed, he has given to the poor. His justice shall remain from age to age. His horn shall be exalted in glory
    10: The sinner will see and become angry. He will gnash his teeth and waste away. The desire of sinners will perish

  Chapter 112.

    1: Alleluia. Praise the Lord, children. Praise the name of the Lord
    2: Blessed is the name of the Lord, from this time forward and even forever
    3: From the rising of the sun, even to its setting, praiseworthy is the name of the Lord
    4: The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory is high above the heavens
    5: Who is like the Lord, our God, who dwells on high
    6: and who gazes upon the humble things in heaven and on earth
    7: He lifts up the needy from the ground, and he urges the poor away from filth
    8: so that he may place him with the leaders, with the leaders of his people
    9: He causes a barren woman to live in a house, as the joyful mother of sons

End of day 163.