Day 146:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: Unto the end. The understanding of the sons of Korah
    2: As the deer longs for fountains of water, so my soul longs for you, O God
    3: My soul has thirsted for the strong living God. When will I draw close and appear before the face of God
    4: My tears have been my bread, day and night. Meanwhile, it is said to me daily: “Where is your God?
    5: These things I have remembered; and my soul within me, I have poured out. For I will cross into the place of the wonderful tabernacle, all the way to the house of God, with a voice of exultation and confession, the sound of feasting
    6: Why are you sad, my soul? And why do you disquiet me? Hope in God, for I will still confess to him: the salvation of my countenance
    7: and my God. My soul has been troubled within myself. Because of this, I will remember you from the land of the Jordan and from Hermon, from the little mountain
    8: Abyss calls upon abyss, with the voice of your floodgate. All your heights and your waves have passed over me
    9: In the daylight, the Lord has ordered his mercy; and in the night, a canticle to him. With me is a prayer to the God of my life
    10: I will say to God, “You are my supporter. Why have you forgotten me? And why do I walk in mourning, while my adversary afflicts me?
    11: While my bones are being broken, my enemies, who trouble me, have reproached me. Meanwhile, they say to me every single day, “Where is your God?
    12: My soul, why are you saddened? And why do you disquiet me? Hope in God, for I will still confess to him: the salvation of my countenance and my God

  Chapter 42.

    1: A Psalm of David. Judge me, O God, and discern my cause from that of a nation not holy; rescue me from a man unjust and deceitful
    2: For you are God, my strength. Why have you rejected me? And why do I walk in sadness, while the adversary afflicts me
    3: Send forth your light and your truth. They have guided me and led me, to your holy mountain and into your tabernacles
    4: And I will enter, up to the altar of God, to God who enlivens my youthfulness. To you, O God, my God, I will confess upon a stringed instrument
    5: Why are you sad, my soul? And why do you disquiet me? Hope in God, for I will still give praise to him: the salvation of my countenance and my God

  Chapter 43.

    1: Unto the end. To the sons of Korah, toward understanding
    2: We have heard, O God, with our own ears. Our fathers have announced to us the work that you wrought in their days and in the days of antiquity
    3: Your hand dispersed the Gentiles, and you transplanted them. You afflicted a people, and you expelled them
    4: For they did not take possession of the land by their sword, and their own arm did not save them. But your right hand and your arm, and the light of your countenance did so, because you were pleased with them
    5: You yourself are my king and my God, who commands the salvation of Jacob
    6: With you, we will brandish a horn before our enemies; and in your name, we will spurn those rising up against us
    7: For I will not hope in my bow, and my sword will not save me
    8: For you have saved us from those who afflict us, and you have bewildered those who hate us
    9: In God, we will give praise all day long; and in your name, we will confess forever
    10: But now, you have rejected and bewildered us, and you will not go forth with our armies, O God
    11: You have turned our back to our enemies, and those who hated us have plundered for themselves
    12: You have given us over like sheep for food. You have scattered us among the Gentiles
    13: You have sold your people without a price, and no great number was exchanged for them
    14: You have set us as a disgrace to our neighbors, a scoff and a derision to those who are around us
    15: You have set us as a parable among the Gentiles, a shaking of the head among the peoples
    16: All day long my shame is before me, and the confusion of my face has covered me
    17: before the voice of the reproacher and the commentator, before the face of the adversary and the pursuer
    18: All these things have come upon us, yet we have not forgotten you, and we have not acted unjustly in your covenant
    19: And our heart has not turned back. And you have not diverted our steps from your way
    20: For you humbled us in a place of affliction, and the shadow of death has covered us
    21: If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have extended our hands to a foreign god
    22: will not God find this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart. For, because of you, we are being killed all day long. We are considered as sheep for the slaughter
    23: Rise up. Why do you fall asleep, O Lord? Rise up, and do not reject us in the end
    24: Why do you turn your face away, and why do you forget our needfulness and our tribulation
    25: For our soul has been humbled into the dust. Our belly has been bound to the earth
    26: Rise up, O Lord. Help us and redeem us, because of your name

  Chapter 44.

    1: Unto the end. For those who will be changed. To the sons of Korah, toward understanding. A Canticle for the Beloved
    2: My heart has uttered a good word. I speak of my works to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a scribe who writes quickly
    3: You are a brilliant form before the sons of men. Grace has been poured freely into your lips. Because of this, God has blessed you in eternity
    4: Fasten your sword to your thigh, O most powerful one
    5: With your splendor and your excellence extended, proceed prosperously, and reign for the sake of truth and meekness and justice, and so will your right hand lead you wondrously
    6: Your arrows are sharp; the people will fall under you, with the hearts of the enemies of the king
    7: Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of true aim
    8: You have loved justice and hated iniquity. Because of this, God, your God, has anointed you, before your co-heirs, with the oil of gladness
    9: Myrrh and balsam and cinnamon perfume your garments, from the houses of ivory. From these, they have delighted you
    10: the daughters of kings in your honor. The queen assisted at your right hand, in clothing of gold, encircled with diversity
    11: Listen, daughter, and see, and incline your ear. And forget your people and your father’s house
    12: And the king will desire your beauty. For he is the Lord your God, and they will adore him
    13: And the daughters of Tyre will entreat your countenance with gifts: all the rich men of the people
    14: All the glory of the daughter of its king is inside, in golden fringes
    15: clothed all around with diversities. After her, virgins will be led to the king. Her neighbors will be brought to you
    16: They will be brought with gladness and exultation. They will be led into the temple of the king
    17: For your fathers, sons have been born to you. You will establish them as leaders over all the earth
    18: They will remember your name always, for generation after generation. Because of this, people will confess to you in eternity, even forever and ever

End of day 146.