Day 6:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Then the Lord visited Sarah, just as he had promised; and he fulfilled what he had spoken
    2: And she conceived and gave birth to a son in her old age, at the time that God had foretold to her
    3: And Abraham called the name of his son, whom Sarah bore for him, Isaac
    4: And he circumcised him on the eighth day, just as God had instructed him
    5: when he was one hundred years old. Indeed, at this stage of his father’s life, Isaac was born
    6: And Sarah said: “God has brought laughter to me. Whoever will hear of it will laugh with me.
    7: And again, she said: “Hearing this, who would believe Abraham, that Sarah breast-fed a son, to whom she gave birth, despite being elderly?
    8: And the boy grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day of his weaning
    9: And when Sarah had seen the son of Hagar the Egyptian playing with her son Isaac, she said to Abraham
    10: “Cast out this woman servant and her son. For the son of a woman servant will not be heir with my son Isaac.
    11: Abraham took this grievously, for the sake of his son
    12: And God said to him: “Let it not seem harsh to you concerning the boy and your woman servant. In all that Sarah has said to you, listen to her voice. For your offspring will be invoked in Isaac
    13: Yet I will also make the son of the woman servant into a great nation, for he is your offspring.
    14: And so Abraham arose in the morning, and taking bread and a skin of water, he placed it upon her shoulder, and he handed over the boy, and he released her. And when she had departed, she wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba
    15: And when the water in the skin had been consumed, she set aside the boy, under one of the trees that were there
    16: And she moved away and sat in a distant area, as far as a bow can reach. For she said, “I shall not see the boy die.” And so, sitting opposite her, he lifted up his voice and wept
    17: But God heard the voice of the boy. And an Angel of God called to Hagar from heaven, saying: “What are you doing, Hagar? Do not be afraid. For God has heeded the voice of the boy, from the place where he is
    18: Rise up. Take the boy and hold him by the hand. For I will make of him a great nation.
    19: And God opened her eyes. And seeing a well of water, she went and filled the skin, and she gave the boy to drink
    20: And God was with him. And he grew, and he stayed in the wilderness, and he became a young man, an archer
    21: And he lived in the desert of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt
    22: At the same time, Abimelech and Phicol, the leader of his army, said to Abraham: “God is with you in everything that you do
    23: Therefore, swear by God that you will do no harm to me, and to my posterity, and to my stock. But according to the mercy that I have done to you, you will do to me and to the land, to which you have turned as a newcomer.
    24: And Abraham said, “I will swear.
    25: And he reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which his servants had taken away by force
    26: And Abimelech responded, “I do not know who did this thing, but you also did not reveal it to me, nor have I heard of it, before today.
    27: And so Abraham took sheep and oxen, and he gave them to Abimelech. And both of them struck a pact
    28: And Abraham set aside seven female lambs from the flock
    29: Abimelech said to him, “What purpose have these seven female lambs, which you have caused to stand separately?
    30: But he said, “You will receive seven female lambs from my hand, so that they may be a testimony for me, that I dug this well.
    31: For this reason, that place was called Beersheba, because there both of them did swear
    32: And they initiated a pact on behalf of the well of oath
    33: Then Abimelech and Phicol, the leader of his army, rose up, and they returned to the land of the Palestinians. In truth, Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and there he called upon the name of the Lord God Eternal
    34: And he was a settler in the land of the Palestinians for many days

  Chapter 22.

    1: After these things occurred, God tested Abraham, and he said to him, “Abraham, Abraham.” And he answered, “Here I am.
    2: He said to him: “Take your only begotten son Isaac, whom you love, and go into the land of vision. And there you shall offer him as a holocaust upon one of the mountains, which I will show to you.
    3: And so Abraham, getting up in the night, harnessed his donkey, taking with him two youths, and his son Isaac. And when he had cut wood for the holocaust, he traveled toward the place, as God had instructed him
    4: Then, on the third day, lifting up his eyes, he saw the place at a distance
    5: And he said to his servants: “Wait here with the donkey. I and the boy will hurry further ahead to that place. After we have worshipped, will return to you.
    6: He also took the wood for the holocaust, and he imposed it upon his son Isaac. And he himself carried in his hands fire and a sword. And as the two continued on together
    7: Isaac said to his father, “My father.” And he answered, “What do you want, son?” “Behold,” he said, “fire and wood. Where is the victim for the holocaust?
    8: But Abraham said, “God himself will provide the victim for the holocaust, my son.” Thus they continued on together
    9: And they came to the place that God had shown to him. There he built an altar, and he set the wood in order upon it. And when he had bound his son Isaac, he laid him on the altar upon the pile of wood
    10: And he reached out his hand and took hold of the sword, in order to sacrifice his son
    11: And behold, an Angel of the Lord called out from heaven, saying, “Abraham, Abraham.” And he answered, “Here I am.
    12: And he said to him, “Do not extend your hand over the boy, and do not do anything to him. Now I know that you fear God, since you have not spared your only begotten son for my sake.
    13: Abraham lifted up his eyes, and he saw behind his back a ram among the thorns, caught by the horns, which he took and offered as a holocaust, instead of his son
    14: And he called the name of that place: ‘The Lord Sees.’ Thus, even to this day, it is said: ‘On the mountain, the Lord will see.
    15: Then the Angel of the Lord called out to Abraham a second time from heaven, saying
    16: “By my own self, I have sworn, says the Lord. Because you have done this thing, and have not spared your only begotten son for my sake
    17: I will bless you, and I will multiply your offspring like the stars of heaven, and like the sand which is on the seashore. Your offspring will possess the gates of their enemies
    18: And in your offspring, all the nations of the earth will be blessed, because you obeyed my voice.
    19: Abraham returned to his servants, and they went to Beersheba together, and he lived there
    20: After these things occurred, it was reported to Abraham that Milcah, likewise, had borne sons for his brother Nahor
    21: Uz, the firstborn, and Buz, his brother, and Kemuel, the father of the Syrians
    22: and Chesed, and Hazo, likewise Pildash, and Jidlaph
    23: as well as Bethuel, of whom was born Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore for Nahor, the brother of Abraham
    24: In truth, his concubine, named Reumah, bore Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah

  Chapter 23.

    1: Now Sarah lived for one hundred and twenty-seven years
    2: And she died in the city of Arba, which is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to mourn and weep for her
    3: And when he had risen up from the funeral duties, he spoke to the sons of Heth, saying
    4: “I am a newcomer and a sojourner among you. Give me the right of a sepulcher among you, so that I may bury my dead.
    5: The sons of Heth responded by saying
    6: “Hear us, O lord, you are a leader of God among us. Bury your dead in our chosen sepulchers. And no man shall be able to prohibit you from burying your dead within his memorial.
    7: Abraham arose, and he reverenced the people of the land, namely, the sons of Heth
    8: And he said to them: “If it pleases your soul that I should bury my dead, hear me, and intercede on my behalf with Ephron, the son of Zohar
    9: so that he may give me the double cave, which he has at the far end of his field. He may transfer it to me for as much money as it is worth in your sight, for the possession of a sepulcher.
    10: Now Ephron dwelt in the midst of the sons of Heth. And Ephron responded to Abraham in the hearing of everyone who was entering at the gate of his city, saying
    11: “Let it never be so, my lord, but you should pay greater heed to what I say. The field I will transfer to you, and the cave that is in it. In the presence of the sons of my people, bury your dead.
    12: Abraham reverenced in the sight of the people of the land
    13: And he spoke to Ephron, standing in the midst of the people: “I ask you to hear me. I will give you money for the field. Take it, and so I will bury my dead in it.
    14: And Ephron responded: “My lord, hear me
    15: The land that you request is worth four hundred shekels of silver. This is the price between me and you. But how much is this? Bury your dead.
    16: And when Abraham had heard this, he weighed out the money that Ephron had requested, in the hearing of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, of the approved public currency
    17: And having confirmed that the field, in which there was a double cave overlooking Mamre, formerly belonged to Ephron, both it and the sepulcher, and all its trees, with all its surrounding limits
    18: Abraham took it as a possession, in the sight of the sons of Heth and of everyone who was entering at the gate of his city
    19: So then, Abraham buried his wife Sarah in the double cave of the field that overlooked Mamre. This is Hebron in the land of Canaan
    20: And the field was confirmed to Abraham, with the cave that was in it, as a memorial possession before the sons of Heth

  Chapter 24.

    1: Now Abraham was old and of many days. And the Lord had blessed him in all things
    2: And he said to the elder servant of his house, who was in charge of all that he had: “Place your hand under my thigh
    3: so that I may make you swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I live
    4: But that you will proceed to my land and kindred, and from there take a wife for my son Isaac.
    5: The servant responded, “If the woman is not willing to come with me into this land, must I lead your son back to the place from which you departed?
    6: And Abraham said: “Beware that you never lead my son back to that place
    7: The Lord God of heaven, who took me from my father’s house, and from the land of my nativity, who spoke to me and swore to me, saying, ‘To your offspring I will give this land,’ himself will send his Angel before you, and you will take from there a wife for my son
    8: But if the woman is not willing to follow you, you will not be held by the oath. Only do not lead my son back to that place.
    9: Therefore, the servant placed his hand under the thigh of Abraham, his lord, and he swore to him on his word
    10: And he took ten camels from his lord’s herd, and he went forth, carrying with him things from all of his goods. And he set out, and continued on, to the city of Nahor, in Mesopotamia
    11: And when he had made the camels lie down outside of the town, near a well of water, in the evening, at the time when women are accustomed to go out to draw water, he said
    12: “O Lord, the God of my lord Abraham, meet with me today, I beg you, and show mercy to my lord Abraham
    13: Behold, I stand near the fountain of water, and the daughters of the inhabitants of this city will go forth to draw water
    14: Therefore, the girl to whom I will say, ‘Tip your pitcher, so that I may drink,’ and she will respond, ‘Drink. In fact, I will give your camels a drink also,’ the same one is she whom you have prepared for your servant Isaac. And by this, I will understand that you have shown mercy to my lord.
    15: But he had not yet completed these words within himself, when, behold, Rebekah went out, the daughter of Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, the brother of Abraham, having a pitcher on her shoulder
    16: She was an exceedingly elegant girl, and a most beautiful virgin, and unknown by man. And she descended to the spring, and she filled her pitcher, and then was returning
    17: And the servant ran to meet her, and he said, “Provide me with a little water to drink from your pitcher.
    18: And she responded, “Drink, my lord.” And she quickly brought down the pitcher on her arm, and she gave him a drink
    19: And after he drank, she added, “In fact, I will draw water for your camels also, until they all drink.
    20: And pouring out the pitcher into the troughs, she ran back to the well to draw water; and having drawn, she gave it to all the camels
    21: But he was contemplating her silently, wanting to know whether the Lord had caused his journey to prosper or no
    22: Then, after the camels drank, the man took out gold earrings, weighing two shekels, and the same number of bracelets, ten shekels in weight
    23: And he said to her: “Whose daughter are you? Tell me, is there any place in your father’s house to lodge?
    24: She responded, “I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah, to whom she gave birth for Nahor.
    25: And she continued, saying, “There is very much straw and hay with us, and a spacious place to stay.
    26: The man bowed himself down, and he adored the Lord
    27: saying, “Blessed be the Lord, the God of my lord Abraham, who has not taken away his mercy and truth from my lord, and who has led me on a direct journey to the house of the brother of my lord.
    28: And so the girl ran, and she reported all that she had heard in the house of her mother
    29: Now Rebekah had a brother, named Laban, who went out quickly to the man, where the spring was
    30: And when he had seen the earrings and bracelets in his sister’s hands, and he had heard all the words being repeated, “This is what the man spoke to me,” he came to the man who stood by the camels and near the spring of water
    31: and he said to him: “Enter, O blessed of the Lord. Why do you stand outside? I have prepared the house, and a place for the camels.
    32: And he brought him into his guest quarters. And he unharnessed the camels, and he distributed straw and hay, and water to wash his feet and that of the men who arrived with him
    33: And bread was set out in his sight. But he said, “I will not eat, until I have spoken my words.” He answered him, “Speak.
    34: Then he said: “I am the servant of Abraham
    35: And the Lord has blessed my lord greatly, and he has become great. And he has given him sheep and oxen, silver and gold, men servants and women servants, camels and donkeys
    36: And Sarah, the wife of my lord, has given birth to a son for my lord in her old age, and he has given him all that he had
    37: And my lord made me swear, saying: ‘You shall not take a wife for my son from the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell
    38: But you shall travel to my father’s house, and you shall take a wife of my own kindred for my son.
    39: But truly, I answered my lord, ‘What if the woman is not willing to come with me?
    40: ‘The Lord,’ he said, ‘in whose sight I walk, will send his Angel with you, and he will direct your way. And you shall take a wife for my son from my own kindred and from my father’s house
    41: But you will be innocent of my curse, if, when you will arrive at my close relatives, they will not grant this to you.
    42: And so, today I arrived at the well of water, and I said: ‘O Lord, the God of my lord Abraham, if you have directed my way, in which I now walk
    43: behold, I stand next to the well of water, and the virgin, who will go forth to draw water, will hear from me, “Give me a little water to drink from your pitcher.
    44: And she will say to me, “You drink, and I will also draw for your camels.” Let the same be the woman, whom the Lord has prepared for the son of my lord.
    45: And while I thought over these things silently within myself, Rebekah appeared, arriving with a pitcher, which she carried on her shoulder. And she descended to the spring and drew water. And I said to her, ‘Give me a little to drink.
    46: And she quickly let down the pitcher from her arm, and said to me, ‘You drink, and to your camels I will also distribute drinking water.’ I drank, and she watered the camels
    47: And I questioned her, saying, ‘Whose daughter are you?’ And she responded, ‘I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Nahor, whom Milcah bore to him.’ And so, I hung the earrings on her, to adorn her face, and I put the bracelets on her hands
    48: And falling prostrate, I adored the Lord, blessing the Lord, the God of my lord Abraham, who has led me along the straight path so as to take the daughter of my lord’s brother to his son
    49: For this reason, if you would act according to mercy and truth with my lord, tell me so. But if it pleases you otherwise, say that to me also, so that I may go either to the right, or to the left.
    50: And Laban and Bethuel responded: “A word has proceeded from the Lord. We are not able to speak anything else to you, beyond what pleases him
    51: Lo, Rebekah is in your sight. Take her and continue on, and let her be the wife of the son of your lord, just as the Lord has spoken.
    52: When Abraham’s servant had heard this, falling down to the ground, he adored the Lord
    53: And bringing forth vessels of silver and gold, as well as garments, he gave them to Rebekah as a tribute. Likewise, he offered gifts to her brothers and her mother
    54: And a banquet began, and they feasted and drank together, and they lodged there. And rising up in the morning, the servant said, “Release me, so that I may go to my lord.
    55: And her brothers and mother responded, “Let the girl remain for at least ten days with us, and after that, she will continue on.
    56: “Do not be willing,” he said, “to delay me, for the Lord has directed my way. Release me, so that I may journey to my lord.
    57: And they said, “Let us call the girl, and ask her will.
    58: And when, having been called, she arrived, they wanted to know, “Will you go with this man?” And she said, “I will go.
    59: Therefore, they released her and her nurse, and the servant of Abraham and his companions
    60: wishing prosperity for their sister, by saying: “You are our sister. May you increase to thousands of thousands. And may your offspring possess the gates of their enemies.
    61: And so, Rebekah and her maids, riding upon camels, followed the man, who quickly returned to his lord
    62: Then, at the same time, Isaac was walking along the way that leads to the well, whose name is: ‘of the One who lives and who sees.’ For he dwelt in the southern land
    63: And he had gone out to meditate in the field, as daylight was now declining. And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw camels advancing from afar
    64: Likewise, Rebekah, having seen Isaac, descended from the camel
    65: And she said to the servant, “Who is that man who advances to meet us through the field?” And he said to her, “That is my lord.” And so, quickly taking up her cloak, she covered herself
    66: Then the servant explained to Isaac all that he had done
    67: And he led her into the tent of Sarah his mother, and he accepted her as wife. And he loved her so very much, that it tempered the sorrow which befell him at his mother’s death

End of day 6.