Day 76:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Now king David had become elderly, and he had many days in his lifetime. And though he was covered with clothes, he was not warmed
    2: Therefore, his servants said to him: “Let us seek, for our lord the king, a young virgin. And let her stand before the king, and warm him, and sleep in his bosom, and provide warmth for our lord the king.
    3: And so they sought a beautiful young woman in all the parts of Israel. And they found Abishag, a Shunammite, and they led her to the king
    4: Now the girl was exceedingly beautiful. And she slept with the king, and she ministered to him. Yet truly, the king did not know her
    5: Then Adonijah, the son of Haggith, exalted himself, saying, “I shall reign!” And he appointed for himself chariots and horsemen, with fifty men who would run before him
    6: Neither did his father chastise him at any time, saying, “Why have you done this?” Now he, too, was very beautiful, the second in birth, after Absalom
    7: And he conferred with Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar, the priest, who gave assistance to the side of Adonijah
    8: Yet truly, Zadok, the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan, the prophet, and Shimei and Rei, and the mature men of the army of David were not with Adonijah
    9: Then Adonijah, having immolated rams and calves and every kind of fat cattle beside the Stone of the Serpent, which was in the vicinity of the fountain Rogel, summoned all his brothers, the sons of the king, and all the men of Judah, the servants of the king
    10: But he did not summon Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, and all the mature men, and Solomon, his brother
    11: And so Nathan said to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon: “Have you not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggith, has begun to reign, and that our lord David is ignorant of this
    12: Now then, come, accept my counsel, and save your life and the life of your son Solomon
    13: Go and enter to king David, and say to him: ‘Did you not, my lord the king, swear to me, your handmaid, saying: “Your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he himself shall sit on my throne?” Then why does Adonijah reign?
    14: And while you are still speaking with the king there, I will enter after you, and I will complete your words.
    15: And so Bathsheba entered to the king in the bedroom. Now the king was very old, and Abishag, the Shunammite, was ministering to him
    16: Bathsheba bowed herself, and she reverenced the king. And the king said to her, “What do you wish?
    17: And responding, she said: “My lord, you swore to your handmaid, by the Lord your God: ‘your son Solomon will reign after me, and he himself shall sit upon my throne.
    18: And now behold, Adonijah reigns, while you, my lord the king, are ignorant of it
    19: He has slain oxen, and every kind of fattened cattle, and many rams. And he has summoned all the sons of the king, as well as Abiathar, the priest, and Joab, the leader of the military. But Solomon, your servant, he did not summon
    20: Truly now, my lord the king, the eyes of all of Israel look with favor upon you, that you may indicate to them who ought to sit upon your throne, my lord the king, after you
    21: Otherwise, this will be: when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, I and my son Solomon will be as sinners.
    22: And while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan, the prophet, arrived
    23: And they announced to the king, saying, “Nathan, the prophet, is here.” And when he had entered in the sight of the king, and he had reverenced prone on the ground
    24: Nathan said: “My lord the king, did you say, ‘Let Adonijah reign after me, and let him sit upon my throne?
    25: For today, he descended, and he immolated oxen, and fattened cattle, and many rams. And he summoned all the sons of the king, and the leaders of the army, along with Abiathar, the priest. And they are eating and drinking before him, and saying, ‘As king Adonijah lives.
    26: But he did not summon me, your servant, and Zadok, the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Solomon, your lowly servant
    27: Could this word have gone out from my lord the king, and could you not have revealed it to me, your servant, as to who would be seated upon the throne of my lord the king after him?
    28: And king David responded, saying, “Summon to me Bathsheba.” And when she had entered before the king, and she had stood before him
    29: the king swore and said: “As the Lord lives, who has rescued my soul from all distress
    30: just as I swore to you by the Lord God of Israel, saying: ‘Your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he himself shall sit upon my throne in my place,’ so shall I do this day.
    31: And Bathsheba, having lowered her face to the ground, reverenced the king, saying, “May my lord David live forever.
    32: And king David said, “Summon to me Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada.” And when they had entered before the king
    33: he said to them: “Take with you the servants of your lord, and place my son Solomon upon my mule. And lead him to Gihon
    34: And let Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, anoint him in that place as the king over Israel. And you shall sound the trumpet, and you shall say, ‘As king Solomon lives.
    35: And you shall ascend after him, and he shall arrive and shall sit upon my throne. And he himself shall reign in my place. And I will command that he be the ruler over Israel and over Judah.
    36: And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, responded to the king, saying: “Amen. So says the Lord, the God of my lord the king
    37: In the same way that the Lord has been with my lord the king, so may he be with Solomon. And may he make his throne more sublime than the throne of my lord, king David.
    38: Then Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, descended, with Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and Pelethites. And they placed Solomon on the mule of king David, and they led him to Gihon
    39: And Zadok, the priest, took the horn of oil from the tabernacle, and he anointed Solomon. And they sounded the trumpet. And all the people said, “As king Solomon lives.
    40: And the entire multitude ascended after him. And the people were playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy. And the earth resounded before the noise of them
    41: Then Adonijah, and all who had been summoned by him, heard it. And now the feast had ended. Then, too, Joab, hearing the voice of the trumpet, said, “What is the meaning of this clamor from the tumultuous city?
    42: While he was still speaking, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar the priest, arrived. And Adonijah said to him, “Enter, for you are a valiant man, and you report good news.
    43: And Jonathan answered Adonijah: “By no means. For our lord king David has appointed Solomon as king
    44: And he has sent with him Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and Pelethites. And they have placed him on the mule of the king
    45: And Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, have anointed him king, at Gihon. And they are ascending from there, rejoicing, and so the city resounds. This is the noise that you have heard
    46: But also, Solomon sits upon the throne of the kingdom
    47: And the servants of the king, entering, have blessed our lord king David, saying: ‘May God amplify the name of Solomon above your name, and may he magnify his throne above your throne.’ And the king reverenced from his bed
    48: And he said: ‘Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who today has bestowed someone to sit upon my throne, while my eyes may see it.’ 
    49: Therefore, all those who had been summoned by Adonijah were terrified. And they all rose up, and each one went his own way
    50: Then Adonijah, fearing Solomon, rose up and went away. And he took hold of the horn of the altar
    51: And they reported to Solomon, saying: “Behold, Adonijah, fearing king Solomon, has taken hold of the horn of the altar, saying: ‘May king Solomon swear to me this day that he will not put to death his servant with the sword.’ 
    52: And Solomon said: “If he is a good man, not so much as one hair of his head shall fall to the ground. But if evil is found in him, he shall die.
    53: Therefore, king Solomon sent and brought him from the altar. And entering, he reverenced king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, “Go to your own house.

  Chapter 2.

    1: Now the days of David had drawn near, so that he would die, and he instructed his son Solomon, saying
    2: “I am entering the way of all the earth. Be strengthened and be a good man
    3: And observe the care of the Lord your God, so that you walk in his ways, so that you care for his ceremonies, and his precepts, and judgments, and testimonies, just as it is written in the law of Moses. So may you understand everything that you do, in any direction that you may turn yourself
    4: So may the Lord confirm his words, which he has spoken about me, saying: ‘If your sons will guard their ways, and if they will walk before me in truth, with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not be taken away from you a man on the throne of Israel.
    5: Also, you know what Joab, the son of Zeruiah, has done to me, what he did to the two leaders of the army of Israel, to Abner, the son of Ner, and to Amasa, the son of Jether. He killed them, and so he shed the blood of war in peace time, and he set the bloodshed of battle on his belt, which was around his waist, and in his shoes, which were on his feet
    6: Therefore, act according to your wisdom. And you shall not allow his gray head to be led away to death in peace
    7: Then, too, repay grace to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite. And you shall allow them to eat at your table. For they met me when I fled from the face of Absalom, your brother
    8: Also, you have with you Shimei, the son of Gera, the son of Benjamin, from Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse, when I went away to the camp. And he descended to meet me when I crossed over the Jordan, and I swore to him by the Lord, saying, ‘I will not put you to death by the sword,
    9: yet do not choose to treat him as if he were innocent. Since you are a wise man, you will know what to do with him. And you shall lead away his grey hair to death with blood.
    10: And so, David slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David
    11: Now the days during which David reigned over Israel are forty years: he reigned seven years in Hebron, thirty-three in Jerusalem
    12: Then Solomon sat upon the throne of his father David, and his kingdom was strengthened exceedingly
    13: And Adonijah, the son of Haggith, entered to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon. And she said to him, “Is your entrance peaceful?” He responded, “It is peaceful.
    14: And he added, “My word is for you.” She said to him, “Speak.” And he said
    15: “You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all of Israel had preferred me for themselves as king. But the kingdom was transferred, and has become my brother’s. For it was appointed to him by the Lord
    16: Now therefore, I beg of you one petition. May you not confound my face.” And she said to him, “Speak.
    17: And he said: “I beg that you may speak to king Solomon, for he is not able to refuse anything to you, so that he may give Abishag the Shunammite to me as wife.
    18: And Bathsheba said: “It is well. I will speak to the king on your behalf.
    19: Then Bathsheba went to king Solomon, so that she might speak to him on behalf of Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and he reverenced her, and he sat down upon his throne. And a throne was stationed for the mother of the king, and she sat at his right hand
    20: And she said to him: “I petition one small request from you. May you not confound my face.” And the king said to her: “Ask, my mother. For it is not right that I turn away your face.
    21: And she said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah, your brother, as wife.
    22: And king Solomon responded, and he said to his mother: “Why do you request Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Why not request the kingdom for him! For he is my older brother, and he has Abiathar, the priest, and Joab, the son of Zeruiah.
    23: And so king Solomon swore by the Lord, saying: “May God do these things to me, and may he add these other things! For Adonijah has spoken this word against his own life
    24: And now, as the Lord lives, who has confirmed me and placed me upon the throne of my father David, and who, just as he said, has made a house for me: Adonijah shall be put to death this day.
    25: And king Solomon sent by the hand of Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, who put him to death, and so he died
    26: Also, the king said to Abiathar, the priest: “Go into Anathoth, to your own land, for you are a man worthy of death. But I will not put you to death this day, since you carried the ark of the Lord God before David, my father, and since you have endured hardship in all the things, for which my father labored.
    27: Therefore, Solomon cast out Abiathar, so that he would not be the priest of the Lord, so that the word of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he spoke over the house of Eli at Shiloh
    28: And the news came to Joab, for Joab had turned aside after Adonijah, and he had not turned aside after Solomon. And so, Joab fled into the tabernacle of the Lord, and he took hold of the horn of the altar
    29: And it was reported to king Solomon that Joab had fled into the tabernacle of the Lord, and that he was beside the altar. And Solomon sent Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, put him to death.
    30: And Benaiah went to the tabernacle of the Lord, and he said to him: “The king says this: ‘Come out.’ ” But he said: “I will not come out. Instead, I will die here.” Benaiah sent word back to the king, saying, “Joab said this, and he responded to me in this way.
    31: And the king said to him, “Do just as he has said. And put him to death, and bury him. And so shall you take away the innocent blood, which was shed by Joab, from me and from my father’s house
    32: And the Lord shall repay his blood upon his own head. For he killed two men, just and better than himself, and he killed them with the sword, while my father, David, did not know it: Abner, the son of Ner, leader of the military of Israel, and Amasa, the son of Jether, leader of the army of Judah
    33: And their blood shall be turned back upon the head of Joab, and upon the head of his offspring forever. But as for David, and his offspring and house, and his throne, may there be peace from the Lord, even unto eternity.
    34: And so Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, went up and, attacking him, put him to death. And he was buried in his own house in the desert
    35: And the king appointed Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, in his place over the army. And he appointed Zadok, the priest, in place of Abiathar
    36: Also, the king sent for and summoned Shimei, and he said to him: “Build a house for yourself in Jerusalem, and live there. And do not depart from that place to here or to there
    37: For on whatever day you will have departed and crossed the torrent Kidron, know that you shall be put to death. Your blood will be upon your own head.
    38: And Shimei said to the king: “The word is good. Just as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do.” And so Shimei lived in Jerusalem for many days
    39: But it happened that, after three years, the servants of Shimei fled to Achish, the son of Maacah, the king of Gath. And it was reported to Shimei that his servants had gone away to Gath
    40: And Shimei rose up, and he saddled his donkey. And went away to Achish in Gath, in order to seek his servants. And he led them away from Gath
    41: And it was reported to Solomon that Shimei had gone away from Jerusalem to Gath, and had returned
    42: And sending, he summoned him, and he said to him: “Did I not testify to you by the Lord, and warn you in advance, ‘On whatever day, having departed, you go forth to here or to there, know that you shall die?’ And you responded to me, ‘The word that I have heard is good.
    43: Then why have you not kept the oath to the Lord, and the commandment which I instructed to you?
    44: And the king said to Shimei: “You know all the evil, of which your heart is conscious, which you did to David, my father. The Lord has repaid your wickedness upon your own head.
    45: And king Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the Lord, even forever
    46: And so the king commanded Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. And going out, he struck him down, and he died

  Chapter 3.

    1: And so the kingdom was confirmed in the hand of Solomon, and he was joined with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, by affinity. For he took his daughter, and he led her into the city of David, until he completed building his own house, and the house of the Lord, and the wall of Jerusalem all around
    2: But still the people immolated in the high places. For no temple had been built to the name of the Lord, even to that day
    3: Now Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the precepts of David, his father, except that he immolated in the high places, and he burned incense
    4: And so, he went away to Gibeon, so that he might immolate there; for that was the greatest high place. Solomon offered upon that altar, at Gibeon, one thousand victims as holocausts
    5: Then the Lord appeared to Solomon, through a dream in the night, saying, “Request whatever you wish, so that I may give it to you.
    6: And Solomon said: “You have shown great mercy to your servant David, my father, because he walked in your sight in truth and justice, and with an upright heart before you. And you have kept your great mercy for him, and you have given him a son sitting upon his throne, just as it is this day
    7: And now, O Lord God, you have caused your servant to reign in place of David, my father. But I am a small child, and I am ignorant of my entrance and departure
    8: And your servant is in the midst of the people that you have chosen, an immense people, who are not able to be numbered or counted because of their multitude
    9: Therefore, give to your servant a teachable heart, so that he may be able to judge your people, and to discern between good and evil. For who will be able to judge this people, your people, who are so many?
    10: And the word was pleasing before the Lord, that Solomon had requested this kind of thing
    11: And the Lord said to Solomon: “Since you have requested this word, and you have not asked for many days or for wealth for yourself, nor for the lives of your enemies, but instead you have requested for yourself wisdom in order to discern judgment
    12: behold, I have done for you according to your words, and I have given you a wise and understanding heart, so much so that there has been no one like you before you, nor anyone who will rise up after you
    13: But also the things for which you did not ask, I have given to you, namely wealth and glory, so that no one has been like you among the kings in the all days before
    14: And if you will walk in my ways, and keep my precepts and my commandments, just as your father walked, I will lengthen your days.
    15: Then Solomon awakened, and he understood that it was a dream. And when he had arrived in Jerusalem, he stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and he offered holocausts and made victims of peace offerings, and he held a great feast for all his servants
    16: Then two women harlots went to the king, and they stood before him
    17: And one of them said: “I beg you, my lord, I and this woman were living in one house, and I gave birth, with her in the room
    18: Then, on the third day after I gave birth, she also gave birth. And we were together, with no other person with us in the house, only the two of us
    19: Then this woman’s son died in the night. For while sleeping, she smothered him
    20: And rising up in the silent depths of the night, she took my son from my side, while I, your handmaid, was sleeping, and she set him in her bosom. Then she placed her dead son in my bosom
    21: And when I had arisen in the morning, so that I might give milk to my son, he appeared to be dead. But gazing upon him more diligently in the light of day, I realized that he was not mine, whom I had born.
    22: And the other woman responded: “It is not such as you say. Instead, your son is dead, but mine is alive.” To the contrary, she said: “You are lying. For my son lives, and your son is dead.” And in this manner, they were contending before the king
    23: Then said the king: “This one says, ‘My son is alive, and your son is dead.’ And the other responds, ‘No, instead your son is dead, but mine lives.’ 
    24: Therefore the king said, “Bring a sword to me.” And when they had brought a sword before the king
    25: he said, “Divide the living infant in two parts, and give a half part to the one and a half part to the other.
    26: But the woman, whose son was alive, said to the king, for her heart was moved concerning her son, “I beg you, my lord, give the living infant to her, and do not kill him.” To the contrary, the other said, “Let it be neither for me, nor for you, instead divide it.
    27: The king responded and said: “Give the living infant to this woman, and do not kill it. For she is his mother.
    28: Then all of Israel heard about the judgment that the king had judged, and they feared the king, seeing that the wisdom of God was in him to accomplish judgment

  Chapter 4.

    1: Now king Solomon was reigning over all of Israel
    2: And these were the leaders that he had: Azariah, the son of Zadok, the priest
    3: Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, the scribes; Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, the keeper of records
    4: Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, over the army; and Zadok, and Abiathar, priests
    5: Azariah, the son of Nathan, over those who were assisting the king; Zabud, the son of Nathan, the priest, the friend of the king
    6: and Ahishar, first ruler of the house; and Adoniram, the son of Abda, over the tribute
    7: And Solomon had twelve commanders over all of Israel, who offered yearly provisions for the king and his house. For each was ministering the necessities, by each month of the year
    8: And these are their names: Benhur, on mount Ephraim
    9: Bendeker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and in Beth-shemesh, and in Elon, and in Beth-hanan
    10: Benhesed, in Arubboth: his was Socoh and the entire land of Hepher
    11: Benabinadab, to whom was all of Naphath-Dor, who had Taphath, the daughter of Solomon, as wife
    12: Baana, the son of Ahilud, who was reigning in Taanach, and Megiddo, and all of Bethshean, which is beside Zarethan and below Jezreel, from Bethshean as far as Abelmeholah, opposite Jokmeam
    13: Bengeber, in Ramoth Gilead, who had the town of Jair, the son of Manasseh, in Gilead; the same was first in the entire region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls that had bronze bars
    14: Ahinadab, the son of Iddo, who was first in Mahanaim
    15: Ahimaaz, in Naphtali, and he also had Basemath, the daughter of Solomon, in marriage
    16: Baana, the son of Hushai, in Asher and in Bealoth
    17: Jehoshaphat, the son of Paruah, in Issachar
    18: Shimei, the son of Ela, in Benjamin
    19: Geber, the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, in the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and of Og, king of Bashan, over all who were in that land
    20: Judah and Israel were innumerable, like the sand of the sea in multitude: eating and drinking, and rejoicing
    21: Now Solomon had, in his dominion, all the kingdoms, from the river to the land of the Philistines, even to the border of Egypt. And they offered gifts to him, and they served him all the days of his life
    22: And the provisions of Solomon, for each day, were thirty cor of fine wheat flour, and sixty cor of meal
    23: ten fattened oxen, and twenty oxen from the pastures, and one hundred rams, aside from the venison of stags, roe deer, and gazelles, and fattened poultry
    24: For he had obtained the entire region which was beyond the river, from Tiphsah as far as Gaza, and all the kings of those regions. And he had peace on every side all around
    25: And so, Judah and Israel were living without any fear, each one under his own vine and under his own fig tree, from Dan as far as Beersheba, during all the days of Solomon
    26: And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of chariot horses, and twelve thousand riding horses
    27: And the above-stated commanders of the king nourished these. And they also offered the necessities for the table of king Solomon, with immense diligence, each in his time
    28: Also, they brought barley and straw for the horses and beasts of burden, to the place where the king was, just as it was appointed to them
    29: And God gave wisdom to Solomon, and an exceedingly great prudence, and a spacious heart, like the sand which is on the shore of the sea
    30: And the wisdom of Solomon surpassed the wisdom of all the East, and of the Egyptians
    31: And he was wiser than all men: wiser than Ethan, the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. And he was renowned in all the nations on every side
    32: Solomon also spoke three thousand parables. And his verses were one thousand and five
    33: And he discoursed about trees, from the cedar which is in Lebanon, to the hyssop which grows out from the wall. And he explained about beasts, and birds, and reptiles, and fish
    34: And they came from all the peoples in order to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, who were hearing about his wisdom

End of day 76.