Day 254:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['13', '14']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And there was a man living in Babylon, and his name was Joakim
    2: And he received a wife named Susanna, the daughter of Hilkiah, who was very beautiful and God-fearing
    3: For her parents, because they were righteous, had educated their daughter according to the law of Moses
    4: But Joakim was very wealthy, and he had an orchard near his house, and the Jews flocked to him, because he was the most honorable of them all
    5: And two elder judges had been appointed among the people that year, about whom the Lord has said, “Iniquity has come out of Babylon, from the elder judges, who seemed to govern the people.
    6: These frequented the house of Joakim, and all came to them, who had need of judgment
    7: But when the people departed at noontime, Susanna went in and walked around in her husband’s orchard
    8: And the elders saw her entering and walking around every day, and they were inflamed with desire towards her
    9: And they perverted their reason and turned away their eyes, so that they would not look to heaven, nor call to mind just judgments
    10: And so they were both wounded by the love of her, yet they did not reveal their grief to one another
    11: For they were ashamed to reveal to each other their desire, wanting to lie with her
    12: And so they watched carefully every day to see her. And one said to the other
    13: “Let us go home, for it is lunch time.” And going out, they departed one from another
    14: And returning again, they came to the same place, and, each asking the other the reason, they admitted their desire. And then they agreed to set a time when they would be able to find her alone
    15: But it happened, while they watched for an opportune day, that she entered at a particular time, just as yesterday and the day before, with only two maids, and she wanted to wash in the orchard, because it was so hot
    16: And there was no one there, except the two elders in hiding, and they were studying her
    17: And so she said to the maids, “Bring me oil and ointments, and shut the doors of the orchard, so that I may wash.
    18: And they did as she ordered them. And they shut the doors of the orchard and left through a back door to fetch what she required, and they did not know that the elders were hiding within
    19: But when the maids had departed, the two elders arose and hurried to her, and they said
    20: “Behold, the doors of the orchard are closed, and no one can see us, and we are in desire for you. Because of these things, consent to us and lie with us
    21: But if you will not, we will bear witness against you that a young man was with you and, for this reason, you sent your maids away from you.
    22: Susanna sighed and said, “I am closed in on every side. For if I do this thing, it is death to me; yet if I do not do it, I will not escape your hands
    23: But it is better for me to fall unavoidably into your hands, than to sin in the sight of the Lord.
    24: And Susanna cried out with a loud voice, but the elders also cried out against her
    25: And one of them hurried to the door of the orchard and opened it
    26: And so, when the servants of the house heard the outcry in the orchard, they rushed in by the back door to see what was happening
    27: But after the old men had spoken, the servants were greatly ashamed, for there had never been anything of this kind said about Susanna. And it happened on the next day
    28: when the people came to Joakim her husband, that the two appointed elders also came, full of wicked plans against Susanna, in order to put her to death
    29: And they said before the people, “Send for Susanna, daughter of Hilkiah, the wife of Joakim.” And immediately they sent for her
    30: And she arrived with her parents, and sons, and all her relatives
    31: Moreover, Susanna was exceedingly delicate and beautiful in appearance
    32: But those wicked ones commanded that her face should be uncovered, (for she was covered,) so that at least they might be satisfied with her beauty
    33: Therefore, her own and all who knew her wept
    34: Yet the two appointed elders, rising up in the midst of the people, set their hands upon her head
    35: And weeping, she gazed up to heaven, for her heart had faith in the Lord
    36: And the appointed elders said, “While we were taking a walk in the orchard alone, this one came in with two maids, and she shut the doors of the orchard, and she sent the maids away from her
    37: And a young man came to her, who was in hiding, and he lay down with her
    38: Furthermore, since we were in a corner of the orchard, seeing this wickedness, we ran up to them, and we saw them consorting together
    39: And, indeed, we were unable to catch him, because he was stronger than us, and opening the doors, he leaped out
    40: But, since we had apprehended this one, we demanded to know who the young man was, but she was unwilling to tell us. On this matter, we are witnesses.
    41: The multitude believed them, just as if they were elders and the judges of the people, and they condemned her to death
    42: But Susanna cried out with a loud voice and said, “Eternal God, who knows what is hidden, who knows all things before they happen
    43: you know that they have borne false witness against me, and behold, I must die, though I have done none of these things, which these men have maliciously invented against me.
    44: But the Lord heeded her voice
    45: And when she was led away to death, the Lord raised up the holy spirit of a young boy, whose name was Daniel
    46: And he cried out with a loud voice, “I am clean of the blood of this one.
    47: And all the people, turning back towards him, said, “What is this word that you are saying?
    48: But he, while standing in the midst of them, said, “Are you so foolish, sons of Israel, that without judging and without knowing what the truth is, you have condemned a daughter of Israel
    49: Return to judgment, because they have spoken false witness against her.
    50: Therefore, the people returned with haste, and the old men said to him, “Come and sit down in our midst and show us, since God has given you the honor of old age.
    51: And Daniel said to them, “Separate these at a distance from one another, and I will judge between them.
    52: And so, when they were divided, one from the other, he called one of them, and he said to him, “You deep-rooted ancient evil, now your sins have come out, which you have committed before
    53: judging unjust judgments, oppressing the innocent, and setting free the guilty, though the Lord declares, ‘The innocent and the just you must not put to death.
    54: Now then, if you saw her, declare under which tree you saw them conversing together.” He said, “Under an evergreen mastic tree.
    55: But Daniel said, “Truly, you have lied against your own head. For behold, the angel of God, having received the sentence from him, will split you down the middle
    56: And, having put him aside, he commanded the other to approach, and he said to him, “You offspring of Canaan, and not of Judah, beauty has deceived you, and desire has perverted your heart
    57: Thus did you do to the daughters of Israel, and they, out of fear, consorted with you, but a daughter of Judah would not tolerate your iniquity
    58: Now then, declare to me, under which tree you caught them conversing together.” He said, “Under an evergreen oak tree.
    59: And Daniel said to him, “Truly, you also have lied against your own head. For the angel of the Lord waits, holding a sword, to cut you down the middle and put you to death.
    60: And then the entire assembly cried out in a loud voice, and they blessed God, who saves those who hope in him
    61: And they rose up against the two appointed elders, (for Daniel had convicted them, by their own mouth, of bearing false witness,) and they did to them just as they had wickedly done against their neighbor
    62: so as to act according to the law of Moses. And they put them to death, and innocent blood was saved on that day
    63: But Hilkiah and his wife praised God for their daughter, Susanna, with Joakim, her husband, and all her relatives, because there had been found in her no disgrace
    64: And so Daniel became great in the sight of the people from that day, and thereafter
    65: And king Astyages was laid to rest with his fathers. And Cyrus the Persian received his kingdom

  Chapter 14.

    1: And so Daniel was living with the king, and he was honored above all his friends
    2: Now there was an idol with the Babylonians named Bel. And each day there was expended on him twelve great measures of fine flour, and forty sheep, and six vessels of wine
    3: The king likewise worshipped him and went each day to adore him, but Daniel adored his God. And the king said to him, “Why do you not adore Bel?
    4: And answering, he said to him, “Because I do not worship idols made with hands, but the living God, who created heaven and earth, and who holds power over all flesh.
    5: And the king said to him, “Does not Bel seem to you to be a living god? Do you not see how much he eats and drinks every day?
    6: Then Daniel said, smiling, “O king, do not make a mistake, for this one is clay on the inside and brass on the outside, and he has never eaten.
    7: And the king, being angry, called for his priests and said to them, “If you do not tell me who it is that has eaten these expenses, you will die
    8: But if you can show that Bel has eaten these, Daniel will die, because he has blasphemed against Bel.” And Daniel said to the king, “Let it be according to your word.
    9: Now the priests of Bel were seventy, besides their wives, and little ones, and sons. And the king went with Daniel into the temple of Bel
    10: And the priests of Bel said, “Behold, we are going out, and you, O king, set out the meats, and mix the wine, and close the door, and seal it with your ring
    11: And when you have entered in the morning, if you have not found that Bel has consumed all, we will suffer death, or else Daniel will, who has lied against us.
    12: But they had no concern because they had made a secret entrance under the table, and they always went in through it and devoured those things
    13: And so it happened, after they had departed, that the king set the foods before Bel, and Daniel commanded his servants, and they brought ashes, and he sifted them throughout the temple in the sight of the king, and, as they left, they shut the door, and after sealing it with the king’s ring, they departed
    14: But the priests entered by night, according to their custom, with their wives, and their sons, and they ate and drank everything
    15: But the king arose at first light, and Daniel with him
    16: And the king said, “Are the seals unbroken, Daniel?” And he answered, “They are unbroken, O king.
    17: And as soon as he had opened the door, the king stared at the table, and cried out with a loud voice, “Great are you, O Bel, and there is not any deceit with you.
    18: And Daniel laughed, and he held back the king, so that he would not enter, and he said, “Look at the pavement, notice whose footsteps these are.
    19: And the king said, “I see the footsteps of men, and women, and children.” And the king was angry
    20: Then he apprehended the priests, and their wives, and their sons, and they showed him the secret doors through which they entered and consumed the things that were on the table
    21: Therefore, the king slaughtered them and delivered Bel into the power of Daniel, who overturned him and his temple
    22: And there was a great dragon in that place, and the Babylonians worshipped him
    23: And the king said to Daniel, “Behold, now you cannot say that this is not a living god; therefore, adore him.
    24: And Daniel said, “I adore the Lord, my God, for he is the living God. But that one is not a living god
    25: Therefore, you give me the power, O king, and I will execute this dragon without sword or club.” And the king said, “I give it to you.
    26: And so Daniel took pitch, and fat, and hair, and cooked them together. And he made lumps and put them into the dragon’s mouth, and the dragon burst open. And he said, “Behold, this is what you worship.
    27: When the Babylonians had heard this, they were greatly indignant. And gathering together against the king, they said, “The king has become a Jew. He has destroyed Bel, he has executed the dragon, and he has slaughtered the priests.
    28: And when they came to the king, they said, “Deliver Daniel to us, otherwise we will execute you and your house.
    29: Thus the king saw that they pressured him vehemently, and so, being compelled by necessity, he delivered Daniel to them
    30: And they cast him into the den of lions, and he was there for six days
    31: Furthermore, in the den there were seven lions, and they had given to them two carcasses every day, and two sheep, but then they were not given to them, so that they would devour Daniel
    32: Now there was in Judea a prophet called Habakkuk, and he had cooked a small meal and had broken bread in a bowl, and he was going into the field, to bring it to the harvesters
    33: And the angel of the Lord said to Habakkuk, “Carry the meal that you have into Babylon, to Daniel, who is in the lions’ den.
    34: And Habakkuk said, “Lord, I have not seen Babylon, and I do not know the den.
    35: And the angel of the Lord seized him by the top of his head, and carried him by the hair of his head, and set him in Babylon, over the den, by the force of his spirit
    36: And Habakkuk shouted, saying, “Daniel, servant of God, take the dinner that God has sent you.
    37: And Daniel said, “You have remembered me, O God, and you have not abandoned those who love you.
    38: And Daniel arose and ate. And then the angel of the Lord immediately returned Habakkuk to his place
    39: And so, on the seventh day, the king came to morn Daniel. And he came to the den, and gazed in, and behold, Daniel was sitting in the midst of the lions
    40: And the king cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Great are you, O Lord, the God of Daniel.” And he pulled him out of the lions’ den
    41: Furthermore, those who had been the cause of his downfall, he hurled into the den, and they were devoured in a moment before him
    42: Then the king said, “Let all the inhabitants of the whole earth fear the God of Daniel. For he is the Savior, working signs and miracles on earth, who has freed Daniel from the lions’ den.

End of day 254.