Day 299:

Reading Luke, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And he said to his disciples: “It is impossible for scandals not to occur. But woe to him through whom they come
    2: It would be better for him if a millstone were placed around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than to lead astray one of these little ones
    3: Be attentive to yourselves. If your brother has sinned against you, correct him. And if he has repented, forgive him
    4: And if he has sinned against you seven times a day, and seven times a day has turned back to you, saying, ‘I am sorry,’ then forgive him.
    5: And the Apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith.
    6: But the Lord said: “If you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you may say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted, and be transplanted into the sea.’ And it would obey you
    7: But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, would say to him, as he was returning from the field, ‘Come in immediately; sit down to eat,
    8: and would not say to him: ‘Prepare my dinner; gird yourself and minister to me, while I eat and drink; and after these things, you shall eat and drink?
    9: Would he be grateful to that servant, for doing what he commanded him to do
    10: I think not. So too, when you have done all these things that have been taught to you, you should say: ‘We are useless servants. We have done what we should have done.’ 
    11: And it happened that, while he was traveling to Jerusalem, he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee
    12: And as he was entering a certain town, ten leprous men met him, and they stood at a distance
    13: And they lifted up their voice, saying, “Jesus, Teacher, take pity on us.
    14: And when he saw them, he said, “Go, show yourselves to the priests.” And it happened that, as they were going, they were cleansed
    15: And one of them, when he saw that he was cleansed, returned, magnifying God with a loud voice
    16: And he fell face down before his feet, giving thanks. And this one was a Samaritan
    17: And in response, Jesus said: “Were not ten made clean? And so where are the nine
    18: Was no one found who would return and give glory to God, except this foreigner?
    19: And he said to him: “Rise up, go forth. For your faith has saved you.
    20: Then he was questioned by the Pharisees: “When does the kingdom of God arrive?” And in response, he said to them: “The kingdom of God arrives unobserved
    21: And so, they will not say, ‘Behold, it is here,’ or ‘Behold, it is there.’ For behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
    22: And he said to his disciples: “The time will come when you will desire to see one day of the Son of man, and you will not see it
    23: And they will say to you, ‘Behold, he is here,’ and ‘Behold, he is there.’ Do not choose to go out, and do not follow them
    24: For just as lightning flashes from under heaven and shines to whatever is under heaven, so also will the Son of man be in his day
    25: But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation
    26: And just as it happened in the days of Noah, so also will it be in the days of the Son of man
    27: They were eating and drinking; they were taking wives and being given in marriage, even until the day that Noah entered the ark. And the flood came and destroyed them all
    28: It shall be similar to what happened in the days of Lot. They were eating and drinking; they were buying and selling; they were planting and building
    29: Then, on the day that Lot departed from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and it destroyed them all
    30: According to these things, so shall it be in the day when the Son of man will be revealed
    31: In that hour, whoever will be on the rooftop, with his goods in the house, let him not descend to take them. And whoever will be in the field, similarly, let him not turn back
    32: Remember Lot’s wife
    33: Whoever has sought to save his life, will lose it; and whoever has lost it, will bring it back to life
    34: I say to you, in that night, there will be two in one bed. One will be taken up, and the other will be left behind
    35: Two will be at the grindstone together. One will be taken up, and the other will be left behind. Two will be in the field. One will be taken up, and the other will be left behind.
    36: Responding, they said to him, “Where, Lord?
    37: And he said to them, “Wherever the body will be, in that place also, the eagles shall be gathered together.

  Chapter 18.

    1: Now he also told them a parable, that we should continually pray and not cease
    2: saying: “There was a certain judge in a certain city, who did not fear God and did not respect man
    3: But there was a certain widow in that city, and she went to him, saying, ‘Vindicate me from my adversary.
    4: And he refused to do so for a long time. But afterwards, he said within himself: ‘Even though I do not fear God, nor respect man
    5: yet because this widow is pestering me, I will vindicate her, lest by returning, she may, in the end, wear me out.’ 
    6: Then the Lord said: “Listen to what the unjust judge said
    7: So then, will not God grant the vindication of his elect, who cry out to him day and night? Or will he continue to endure them
    8: I tell you that he will quickly bring vindication to them. Yet truly, when the Son of man returns, do you think that he will find faith on earth?
    9: Now about certain persons who consider themselves to be just, while disdaining others, he told also this parable
    10: “Two men ascended to the temple, in order to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other was a tax collector
    11: Standing, the Pharisee prayed within himself in this way: ‘O God, I give thanks to you that I am not like the rest of men: robbers, unjust, adulterers, even as this tax collector chooses to be
    12: I fast twice between Sabbaths. I give tithes from all that I possess.
    13: And the tax collector, standing at a distance, was not willing to even lift up his eyes to heaven. But he struck his chest, saying: ‘O God, be merciful to me, a sinner.
    14: I say to you, this one descended to his house justified, but not the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled; and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
    15: And they were bringing little children to him, so that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw this, they rebuked them
    16: But Jesus, calling them together, said: “Allow the children to come to me, and do not be an obstacle to them. For of such is the kingdom of God
    17: Amen, I say to you, whoever will not accept the kingdom of God like a child, will not enter into it.
    18: And a certain leader questioned him, saying: “Good teacher, what should I do to possess eternal life?
    19: Then Jesus said to him: “Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone
    20: You know the commandments: You shall not kill. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony. Honor your father and mother.
    21: And he said, “I have kept all these things from my youth.
    22: And when Jesus heard this, he said to him: “One thing is still lacking for you. Sell all the things that you have, and give to the poor. And then you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me.
    23: When he heard this, he became very sorrowful. For he was very rich
    24: Then Jesus, seeing him brought to sorrow, said: “How difficult it is for those who have money to enter into the kingdom of God
    25: For it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a wealthy man to enter into the kingdom of God.
    26: And those who were listening to this said, “Then who is able to be saved?
    27: He said to them, “Things that are impossible with men are possible with God.
    28: And Peter said, “Behold, we have left everything, and we have followed you.
    29: And he said to them: “Amen, I say to you, there is no one who has left behind home, or parents, or brothers, or a wife, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God
    30: who will not receive much more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life.
    31: Then Jesus took the twelve aside, and he said to them: “Behold, we are ascending to Jerusalem, and everything shall be completed which was written by the prophets about the Son of man
    32: For he will be handed over to the Gentiles, and he will be mocked and scourged and spit upon
    33: And after they have scourged him, they will kill him. And on the third day, he will rise again.
    34: But they understood none of these things. For this word was concealed from them, and they did not understand the things that were said
    35: Now it happened that, as he was approaching Jericho, a certain blind man was sitting beside the way, begging
    36: And when he heard the multitude passing by, he asked what this was
    37: And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by
    38: And he cried out, saying, “Jesus, Son of David, take pity on me!
    39: And those who were passing by rebuked him, so that he would be silent. Yet truly, he cried out all the more, “Son of David, take pity on me!
    40: Then Jesus, standing still, ordered him to be brought to him. And when he had drawn near, he questioned him
    41: saying, “What do you want, that I might do for you?” So he said, “Lord, that I may see.
    42: And Jesus said to him: “Look around. Your faith has saved you.
    43: And immediately he saw. And he followed him, magnifying God. And all the people, when they saw this, gave praise to God

  Chapter 19.

    1: And having entered, he walked through Jericho
    2: And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. And he was the leader of the tax collectors, and he was wealthy
    3: And he sought to see Jesus, to see who he was. But he was unable to do so, because of the crowd, for he was small in stature
    4: And running ahead, he climbed up a sycamore tree, so that he might see him. For he was to pass near there
    5: And when he had arrived at the place, Jesus looked up and saw him, and he said to him: “Zacchaeus, hurry down. For today, I should lodge in your house.
    6: And hurrying, he came down, and he received him joyfully
    7: And when they all saw this, they murmured, saying that he had turned aside to a sinful man
    8: But Zacchaeus, standing still, said to the Lord: “Behold, Lord, one half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have cheated anyone in any matter, I will repay him fourfold.
    9: Jesus said to him: “Today, salvation has come to this house; because of this, he too is a son of Abraham
    10: For the Son of man has come to seek and to save what had been lost.
    11: As they were listening to these things, continuing on, he spoke a parable, because he was nearing Jerusalem, and because they guessed that the kingdom of God might be manifested without delay
    12: Therefore, he said: “A certain man of nobility traveled to a far away region, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return
    13: And calling his ten servants, he gave them ten pounds, and he said to them: ‘Do business until I return.
    14: But his citizens hated him. And so they sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We do not want this one to reign over us.
    15: And it happened that he returned, having received the kingdom. And he ordered the servants, to whom he had given the money, to be called so that he would know how much each one had earned by doing business
    16: Now the first approached, saying: ‘Lord, your one pound has earned ten pounds.
    17: And he said to him: ‘Well done, good servant. Since you have been faithful in a small matter, you will hold authority over ten cities.
    18: And the second came, saying: ‘Lord, your one pound has earned five pounds.
    19: And he said to him, ‘And so, you shall be over five cities.
    20: And another approached, saying: ‘Lord, behold your one pound, which I kept stored in a cloth
    21: For I feared you, because you are an austere man. You take up what you did not lay down, and you reap what you did not sow.
    22: He said to him: ‘By your own mouth, do I judge you, O wicked servant. You knew that I am an austere man, taking up what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow
    23: And so, why did you not give my money to the bank, so that, upon my return, I might have withdrawn it with interest?
    24: And he said to the bystanders, ‘Take the pound away from him, and give it to him who has ten pounds.
    25: And they said to him, ‘Lord, he has ten pounds.
    26: So then, I say to you, that to all who have, it shall be given, and he will have in abundance. And from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken from him
    27: ‘Yet truly, as for those enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here, and put them to death before me.’ 
    28: And having said these things, he went ahead, ascending to Jerusalem
    29: And it happened that, when he had drawn near to Bethphage and Bethania, to the mount which is called Olivet, he sent two of his disciples
    30: saying: “Go into the town which is opposite you. Upon entering it, you will find the colt of a donkey, tied, on which no man has ever sat. Untie it, and lead it here
    31: And if anyone will ask you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you shall say this to him: ‘Because the Lord has requested its service.’ 
    32: And those who were sent went out, and they found the colt standing, just as he told them
    33: Then, as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying the colt?
    34: So they said, “Because the Lord has need of it.
    35: And they led it to Jesus. And casting their garments on the colt, they helped Jesus onto it
    36: Then, as he was traveling, they were laying down their garments along the way
    37: And when he was now drawing near to the descent of Mount Olivet, the entire crowd of his disciples began to praise God joyfully, with a loud voice, over all the powerful works which they had seen
    38: saying: “Blessed is the king who has arrived in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory on high!
    39: And certain Pharisees within the crowd said to him, “Teacher, rebuke your disciples.
    40: And he said to them, “I tell you, that if these will keep silent, the stones themselves will cry out.
    41: And when he drew near, seeing the city, he wept over it, saying
    42: “If only you had known, indeed even in this your day, which things are for your peace. But now they are hidden from your eyes
    43: For the days will overtake you. And your enemies will encircle you with a valley. And they will surround you and hem you in on every side
    44: And they will knock you down to the ground, with your sons who are in you. And they will not leave stone upon stone within you, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation.
    45: And entering into the temple, he began to cast out those who sold in it, and those who bought
    46: saying to them: “It is written: ‘My house is a house of prayer.’ But you have made it into a den of robbers.
    47: And he was teaching in the temple daily. And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, and the leaders of the people were seeking to destroy him
    48: But they could not find what to do to him. For all the people were listening to him attentively

  Chapter 20.

    1: And it happened that, on one of the days when he was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the Gospel, the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, gathered together with the elders
    2: and they spoke to him, saying: “Tell us, by what authority do you do these things? Or, who is it that has given you this authority?
    3: And in response, Jesus said to them: “I will also question you about one word. Respond to me
    4: The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?
    5: So they discussed it among themselves, saying: “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Then why did you not believe him?
    6: But if we say, ‘Of men,’ the whole people will stone us. For they are certain that John was a prophet.
    7: And so they responded that they did not know where it was from
    8: And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
    9: Then he began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard, and he loaned it to settlers, and he was on a sojourn for a long time
    10: And in due time, he sent a servant to the farmers, so that they would give to him from the fruit of the vineyard. And they beat him and drove him away, empty-handed
    11: And he continued to send another servant. But beating him and treating him with contempt, they likewise sent him away, empty-handed
    12: And he continued to send a third. And wounding him also, they drove him away
    13: Then the lord of the vineyard said: ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. Perhaps when they have seen him, they will respect him.
    14: And when the settlers had seen him, they discussed it among themselves, saying: ‘This one is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance will be ours.
    15: And forcing him outside of the vineyard, they killed him. What, then, will the lord of the vineyard do to them?
    16: “He will come and destroy those settlers, and he will give the vineyard to others.” And upon hearing this, they said to him, “Let it not be.
    17: Then, gazing at them, he said: “Then what does this mean, which is written: ‘The stone which the builders have rejected, the same has become the head of the corner?
    18: Everyone who falls on that stone will be shattered. And anyone upon whom it falls will be crushed.
    19: And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, were seeking to lay hands on him in that same hour, but they feared the people. For they realized that he had spoken this parable about them
    20: And being attentive, they sent traitors, who would pretend that they were just, so that they might catch him in his words and then hand him over to the power and authority of the procurator
    21: And they questioned him, saying: “Teacher, we know that you speak and teach correctly, and that you do not consider anyone’s status, but you teach the way of God in truth
    22: Is it lawful for us to pay the tribute to Caesar, or not?
    23: But realizing their deceitfulness, he said to them: “Why do you test me
    24: Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have?” In response, they said to him, “Caesar’s.
    25: And so, he said to them: “Then repay the things that are Caesar’s, to Caesar, and the things that are God’s, to God.
    26: And they were not able to contradict his word before the people. And being amazed at his answer, they were silent
    27: Now some of the Sadducees, who deny that there is a resurrection, approached him. And they questioned him
    28: saying: “Teacher, Moses wrote for us: If any man’s brother will have died, having a wife, and if he does not have any children, then his brother should take her as his wife, and he should raise up offspring for his brother
    29: And so there were seven brothers. And the first took a wife, and he died without sons
    30: And the next one married her, and he also died without a son
    31: And the third married her, and similarly all seven, and none of them left behind any offspring, and they each died
    32: Last of all, the woman also died
    33: In the resurrection, then, whose wife will she be? For certainly all seven had her as a wife.
    34: And so, Jesus said to them: “The children of this age marry and are given in marriage
    35: Yet truly, those who shall be held worthy of that age, and of the resurrection from the dead, will neither be married, nor take wives
    36: For they can no longer die. For they are equal to the Angels, and they are children of God, since they are children of the resurrection
    37: For in truth, the dead do rise again, as Moses also showed beside the bush, when he called the Lord: ‘The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
    38: And so he is not the God of the dead, but of the living. For all are alive to him.
    39: Then some of the scribes, in response, said to him, “Teacher, you have spoken well.
    40: And they no longer dared to question him about anything
    41: But he said to them: “How can they say that the Christ is the son of David
    42: Even David himself says, in the book of Psalms: ‘The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand
    43: until I set your enemies as your footstool.
    44: Therefore, David calls him Lord. So how can he be his son?
    45: Now in the hearing of all the people, he said to his disciples
    46: “Be cautious of the scribes, who choose to walk in long robes, and who love greetings in the marketplace, and the first chairs in the synagogues, and the first places at table during feasts
    47: who devour the houses of widows, feigning long prayers. These will receive the greater damnation.

End of day 299.