Day 4:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Therefore, Abram ascended from Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, toward the southern region
    2: But he was very wealthy by the possession of gold and silver
    3: And he returned by the way that he came, from the meridian into Bethel, all the way to the place where before he had pitched his tent, between Bethel and Hai
    4: There, at the place of the altar he had made before, he again called upon the name of the Lord
    5: But Lot also, who was with Abram, had flocks of sheep, and cattle, and tents
    6: Neither was the land able to contain them, so that they might dwell together. Indeed, their substance was so great that they could not live in common
    7: And then there also arose a conflict between the shepherds of Abram and of Lot. Now at that time the Canaanite and the Perizzite lived in that land
    8: Therefore, Abram said to Lot: “I ask you, let there be no quarrel between me and you, and between my shepherds and your shepherds. For we are brothers
    9: Behold, the entire land is before your eyes. Withdraw from me, I beg you. If you will go to the left, I will take the right. If you choose the right, I will pass to the left.
    10: And so Lot, lifting up his eyes, saw all the region around the Jordan, which was thoroughly irrigated, before the Lord overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. It was like the Paradise of the Lord, and it was like Egypt, approaching toward Zoar
    11: And Lot chose for himself the region around the Jordan, and he withdrew by way of the east. And they were divided, one brother from the other
    12: Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan. In truth, Lot stayed in the towns that were around the Jordan, and he lived in Sodom
    13: But the men of Sodom were very wicked, and they were sinners before the Lord beyond measure
    14: And the Lord said to Abram, after Lot was divided from him: “Lift up your eyes, and gaze out from the place where you are now, to the north and to the meridian, to the east and to the west
    15: All the land that you see, I will give to you, and to your offspring even forever
    16: And I will make your offspring like the dust of the earth. If any man is able to number the dust of the earth, he will be able to number your offspring as well
    17: Arise and walk through the land in its length, and breadth. For I will give it to you.
    18: Therefore, moving his tent, Abram went and dwelt by the steep valley of Mamre, which is in Hebron. And he built an altar there to the Lord

  Chapter 14.

    1: Now it happened in that time that Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Pontus, and Chedorlaomer, king of the Elamites, and Tidal, king of the Nations
    2: went to war against Bera, king of Sodom, and against Birsha, king of Gomorrah, and against Shinab, king of Admah, and against Shemeber, king of Zeboiim, and against the king of Bela, that is Zoar
    3: All these came together in the wooded valley, which is now the Sea of Salt
    4: For they had served Chedorlaomer for twelve years, and in the thirteenth year they withdrew from him
    5: Therefore, in the fourteenth year, Chedorlaomer arrived, and the kings who were with him. And they struck the Rephaim at Ashteroth of the two horns, and the Zuzim with them, and the Emim at Shaveh-Kiriathaim
    6: and the Chorreans in the mountains of Seir, even to the plains of Paran, which is in wilderness
    7: And they returned and arrived at the fountain of Mishpat, which is Kadesh. And they struck the entire region of the Amalekites, and the Amorites who dwelt in Hazazontamar
    8: And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and indeed the king of Bela, which is Zoar, went forth. And they directed their point against them in the wooded valley
    9: namely, against Chedorlaomer, king of the Elamites, and Tidal, king of the Nations, and Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Pontus: four kings against five
    10: Now the wooded valley had many pits of bitumen. And so the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah turned back and they fell there. And those who remained, fled to the mountain
    11: Then they took all the substance of the Sodomites and the Gomorrahites, and all that pertained to food, and they went away
    12: along with both Lot, the son of Abram’s brother, who lived in Sodom, and his substance
    13: And behold, one who had escaped reported it to Abram the Hebrew, who lived in the steep valley of Mamre the Amorite, who was the brother of Eshcol, and the brother of Aner. For these had formed an agreement with Abram
    14: When Abram had heard this, namely, that his brother Lot had been taken captive, he numbered three hundred and eighteen of his own armed men and he went in pursuit all the way to Dan
    15: And dividing his company, he rushed upon them in the night. And he struck them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus
    16: And he brought back all the substance, and Lot his brother, with his substance, likewise the women and the people
    17: Then the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after he returned from the slaughter at Chedorlaomer, and the kings who were with him at the valley of Shaveh, which is the valley of the king
    18: Then in truth, Melchizedek, the king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine, for he was a priest of the Most High God
    19: he blessed him, and he said: “Blessed be Abram by the Most High God, who created heaven and earth
    20: And blessed be the Most High God, through whose protection the enemies are in your hands.” And he gave him tithes from everything
    21: Then the king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give me these souls, and take the rest for yourself.
    22: And he responded to him: “I lift up my hand to the Lord God, the Most High, the Possessor of heaven and earth
    23: that from one thread within a blanket, even to a single shoelace, I will not take anything from that which is yours, lest you say, ‘I have enriched Abram,
    24: except that which the young men have eaten, and the shares for the men who came with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. These will take their shares.

  Chapter 15.

    1: And so, these things having been transacted, the word of the Lord came to Abram by a vision, saying: “Do not be afraid, Abram, I am your protector, and your reward is exceedingly great.
    2: And Abram said: “Lord God, what will you give to me? I may go without children. And the son of the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus.
    3: And Abram added: “Yet to me you have not given offspring. And behold, my servant born in my house will be my heir.
    4: And immediately the word of the Lord came to him, saying: “This one will not be your heir. But he who will come from your loins, the same will you have for your heir.
    5: And he brought him outside, and he said to him, “Take in the heavens, and number the stars, if you can.” And he said to him, “So also will your offspring be.
    6: Abram believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice
    7: And he said to him, “I am the Lord who led you away from Ur of the Chaldeans, so as to give you this land, and so that you would possess it.
    8: But he said, “Lord God, in what way may I be able to know that I will possess it?
    9: And the Lord responded by saying: “Take for me a cow of three years, and a she-goat of three years, and a ram of three years, also a turtle-dove and a pigeon.
    10: Taking all these, he divided them through the middle, and placed both parts opposite one another. But the birds he did not divide
    11: And birds descended upon the carcasses, but Abram drove them away
    12: And when the sun was setting, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and a dread, great and dark, invaded him
    13: And it was said to him: “Know beforehand that your future offspring will be sojourners in a land not their own, and they will subjugate them in servitude and afflict them for four hundred years
    14: Yet truly, I will judge the nation that they will serve, and after this they will depart with great substance
    15: But you will go to your fathers in peace and be buried at a good old age
    16: But in the fourth generation, they will return here. For the iniquities of the Amorites are not yet completed, even to this present time.
    17: Then, when the sun had set, there came a dark mist, and there appeared a smoking furnace and a lamp of fire passing between those divisions
    18: On that day, God formed a covenant with Abram, saying: “To your offspring I will give this land, from the river of Egypt, even to the great river Euphrates
    19: the land of the Kenites and the Kenizzites, the Kadmonite
    20: and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, likewise the Rephaim
    21: and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now Sarai, the wife of Abram, had not conceived children. But, having an Egyptian handmaid named Hagar
    2: she said to her husband: “Behold, the Lord has closed me, lest I give birth. Enter to my handmaid, so that perhaps I may receive sons of her at least.” And when he agreed to her supplication
    3: she took Hagar the Egyptian, her handmaid, ten years after they began to live in the land of Canaan, and she gave her to her husband as a wife
    4: And he entered to her. But when she saw that she had conceived, she despised her mistress
    5: And Sarai said to Abram: “You have acted unfairly against me. I gave my handmaid into your bosom, who, when she saw that she had conceived, held me in contempt. May the Lord judge between me and you.
    6: Abram responded to her by saying, “Behold, your handmaid is in your hand to treat as it pleases you.” And so, when Sarai afflicted her, she took flight
    7: And when the Angel of the Lord had found her, near the fountain of water in the wilderness, which is on the way to Shur in the desert
    8: he said to her: “Hagar, handmaid of Sarai, where have you come from? And where will you go?” And she answered, “I flee from the face of Sarai, my mistress.
    9: And the Angel of the Lord said to her, “Return to your mistress, and humble yourself under her hand.
    10: And again he said, “I will multiply your offspring continuously, and they will not be numbered because of their multitude.
    11: But thereafter he said: “Behold, you have conceived, and you will give birth to a son. And you shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has heard your affliction
    12: He will be a wild man. His hand will be against all, and all hands will be against him. And he will pitch his tents away from the region of all his brothers.
    13: Then she called upon the name of the Lord who had spoken to her: “You are the God who has seen me.” For she said, “Certainly, here I have seen the back of the one who sees me.
    14: Because of this, she called that well: ‘The well of the one who lives and who sees me.’ The same is between Kadesh and Bered
    15: And Hagar gave birth to a son for Abram, who called his name Ishmael
    16: Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael for him

End of day 4.