Day 167:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['125', '126', '127', '128']:

  Chapter 125.

    1: A Canticle in steps. When the Lord turned back the captivity of Zion, we became like those who are consoled
    2: Then our mouth was filled with gladness and our tongue with exultation. Then they will say among the nations: “The Lord has done great things for them.
    3: The Lord has done great things for us. We have become joyful
    4: Convert our captivity, O Lord, like a torrent in the south
    5: Those who sow in tears shall reap in exultation
    6: When departing, they went forth and wept, sowing their seeds
    7: But when returning, they will arrive with exultation, carrying their sheaves

  Chapter 126.

    1: A Canticle in steps: of Solomon. Unless the Lord has built the house, those who build it have labored in vain. Unless the Lord has guarded the city, he who guards it watches in vain
    2: It is in vain that you rise before daylight, that you rise up after you have sat down, you who chew the bread of sorrow. Whereas, to his beloved, he will give sleep
    3: Behold, the inheritance of the Lord is sons, the reward is the fruit of the womb
    4: Like arrows in the hand of the powerful, so are the sons of those who have been cast out
    5: Blessed is the man who has filled his desire from these things. He will not be confounded when he speaks to his enemies at the gate

  Chapter 127.

    1: A Canticle in steps. Blessed are all those who fear the Lord, who walk in his ways
    2: For you will eat by the labors of your hands. Blessed are you, and it will be well with you
    3: Your wife is like an abundant vine on the sides of your house. Your sons are like young olive trees surrounding your table
    4: Behold, so will the man be blessed who fears the Lord
    5: May the Lord bless you from Zion, and may you see the good things of Jerusalem, all the days of your life
    6: And may you see the sons of your sons. Peace be upon Israel

  Chapter 128.

    1: A Canticle in steps. They have often fought against me from my youth, let Israel now say
    2: they have often fought against me from my youth, yet they could not prevail over me
    3: The sinners have made fabrications behind my back. They have prolonged their iniquity
    4: The just Lord will cut the necks of sinners
    5: Let all those who hate Zion be confounded and turned backwards
    6: Let them be like grass on the rooftops, which withers before it can be pulled up
    7: with it, he who reaps does not fill his hand and he who gathers sheaves does not fill his bosom
    8: And those who were passing by have not said to them: “The blessing of the Lord be upon you. We have blessed you in the name of the Lord.

End of day 167.