Day 152:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['65', '66', '67', '68']:

  Chapter 65.

    1: Unto the end. A Canticle Psalm of the Resurrection. Shout joyfully to God, all the earth
    2: Proclaim a psalm to his name. Give glory to his praise
    3: Exclaim to God, “How terrible are your works, O Lord!” According to the fullness of your virtue, your enemies will speak lies about you
    4: Let all the earth adore you and sing psalms to you. May it sing a psalm to your name
    5: Draw near and see the works of God, who is terrible in his counsels over the sons of men
    6: He converts the sea into dry land. They will cross the river on foot. There, we will rejoice in him
    7: He rules by his virtue for eternity. His eyes gaze upon the nations. May those who exasperate him, not be exalted in themselves
    8: Bless our God, you Gentiles, and make the voice of his praise be heard
    9: He has set my soul toward life, and he has granted that my feet may not be shaken
    10: For you, O God, have tested us. You have examined us by fire, just as silver is examined
    11: You have led us into a snare. You have placed tribulations on our back
    12: You have set men over our heads. We have crossed through fire and water. And you have led us out to refreshment
    13: I will enter your house with holocausts. I will repay my vows to you
    14: which my lips discerned and my mouth spoke, in my tribulation
    15: I will offer to you holocausts full of marrow, with the burnt offerings of rams. I will offer to you bulls as well as goats
    16: Draw near and listen, all you who fear God, and I will describe to you how much he has done for my soul
    17: I cried out to him with my mouth, and I extolled him under my breath
    18: If I have seen iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not heed me
    19: And yet, God has heeded me and he has attended to the voice of my supplication
    20: Blessed is God, who has not removed my prayer, nor his mercy, from me

  Chapter 66.

    1: Unto the end. With hymns, a Canticle Psalm of David
    2: May God have mercy on us and bless us. May he shine his countenance upon us, and may he have mercy on us
    3: So may we know your way upon the earth, your salvation among all nations
    4: Let the peoples confess to you, O God. Let all the peoples confess to you
    5: May the nations rejoice and exult. For you judge the peoples with equity, and you direct the nations on earth
    6: Let the peoples confess to you, O God. Let all the peoples confess to you
    7: The earth has provided her fruit. May God, our God, bless us
    8: May God bless us, and may all the ends of the earth fear him

  Chapter 67.

    1: Unto the end. A Canticle Psalm of David himself
    2: May God rise up, and may his enemies be scattered, and may those who hate him flee from before his face
    3: Just as smoke vanishes, so may they vanish. Just as wax flows away before the face of fire, so may sinners pass away before the face of God
    4: And so, let the just feast, and let them exult in the sight of God and be delighted in gladness
    5: Sing to God, sing a psalm to his name. Make a path for him, who ascends over the west. The Lord is his name. Exult in his sight; they will be stirred up before his face
    6: the father of orphans and the judge of widows. God is in his holy place
    7: It is God who makes men dwell in a house under one custom. He leads out those who are strongly bound, and similarly, those who exasperate, who dwell in sepulchers
    8: O God, when you departed in the sight of your people, when you passed through the desert
    9: the earth was moved, for the heavens rained down before the face of the God of Sinai, before the face of the God of Israel
    10: You will set aside for your inheritance, O God, a willing rain. And though it was weak, truly, you have made it perfect
    11: Your animals will dwell in it. O God, in your sweetness, you have provided for the poor
    12: The Lord will give the word to evangelizers, along with great virtue
    13: The King of virtue is beloved among the beloved. And the beauty of the house will divide spoils
    14: If you take your rest in the midst of the clergy, you will be like a dove whose wings are covered with fine silver and edged with pale gold
    15: When heaven discerns kings to be over her, they will be whitened with the snows of Zalmon
    16: The mountain of God is a fat mountain, a dense mountain, a thick mountain
    17: So then, why are you distrustful of dense mountains? The mountain on which God is well pleased to dwell, even there, the Lord will dwell until the end
    18: The chariot of God is ten thousand fold: thousands rejoice. The Lord is with them in Sinai, in the holy place
    19: You have ascended on high; you have taken captivity captive. You have accepted gifts among men. For even those who do not believe dwell with the Lord God
    20: Blessed is the Lord, day after day. The God of our salvation will make our journey prosper for us
    21: Our God is the God who will bring about our salvation, and our Lord is the Lord who has brought an end to death
    22: So then, truly, God will break the heads of his enemies, the hairy skull of those who wander around in their offenses
    23: The Lord said: I will turn them away from Bashan, I will turn them into the depths of the sea
    24: so that your feet may be soaked in the blood of your enemies, so that the tongue of your dogs may be soaked with the same
    25: O God, they have seen your arrival, the arrival of my God, of my king who is in a holy place
    26: The leaders went ahead, united with the singers of psalms, in the midst of girls playing on timbrels
    27: In the churches, bless the Lord God from the fountains of Israel
    28: In that place, Benjamin is a youth in ecstasy of mind. The leaders of Judah are their governors: the leaders of Zebulun, the leaders of Naphtali
    29: Command by your virtue, O God. Confirm in this place, O God, what you have wrought in us
    30: Before your temple in Jerusalem, kings will offer gifts to you
    31: Rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds, a congregation of bulls with the cows of the people, for they seek to exclude those who have been tested like silver. Scatter the nations that are pleased by wars
    32: Ambassadors will come out of Egypt. Ethiopia will offer in advance her hands to God
    33: Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth. Sing psalms to the Lord. Sing psalms to God
    34: He ascends, up to the heaven of the heavens, toward the east. Behold, he will utter his voice, the voice of virtue
    35: Give glory to God beyond Israel. His magnificence and his virtue is in the clouds
    36: God is wonderful in his saints. The God of Israel himself will give virtue and strength to his people. Blessed is God

  Chapter 68.

    1: Unto the end. For those who will be changed: of David
    2: Save me, O God, for the waters have entered, even to my soul
    3: I have become stuck in a deep quagmire, and there is no firm footing. I have arrived at the height of the sea, and a tempest has overwhelmed me
    4: I have endured hardships, while crying out. My jaws have become hoarse; my eyes have failed. Meanwhile, I hope in my God
    5: Those who hate me without cause have been multiplied beyond the hairs of my head. My enemies, who persecuted me unjustly, have been strengthened. Then I was required to pay for what I did not take
    6: O God, you know my foolishness, and my offenses have not been hidden from you
    7: Let those who wait for you, O Lord, the Lord of hosts, not be shamed in me. Let those who seek you, O God of Israel, not be confounded over me
    8: For because of you, I have endured reproach; confusion has covered my face
    9: I have become a stranger to my brothers and a sojourner to the sons of my mother
    10: For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproached you have fallen upon me
    11: And I covered my soul with fasting, and it has become a reproach to me
    12: And I put on a haircloth as my garment, and I became a parable to them
    13: Those who sat at the gate spoke against me, and those who drank wine made me their song
    14: But as for me, truly, my prayer is to you, O Lord. This time has pleased you well, O God. In the multitude of your mercy, in the truth of your salvation, hear me
    15: Rescue me from the quagmire, so that I may not become trapped. Free me from those who hate me and from deep waters
    16: Do not allow the tempest of water to submerge me, nor the deep to absorb me. And do not allow the well to close in on me
    17: Hear me, O Lord, for your mercy is kind. Look upon me, according to the fullness of your compassion
    18: And do not turn your face away from your servant, for I am in trouble: heed me quickly
    19: Attend to my soul, and free it. Rescue me, because of my enemies
    20: You know my reproach, and my confusion, and my reverence
    21: All those who trouble me are in your sight; my heart has anticipated reproach and misery. And I sought for one who might grieve together with me, but there was no one, and for one who might console me, and I found no one
    22: And they gave me gall for my food. And in my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink
    23: Let their table be a snare before them, and a retribution, and a scandal
    24: Let their eyes be darkened, so that they may not see, and may their back always be crooked
    25: Pour out your indignation upon them, and may the fury of your anger take hold of them
    26: May their dwelling place be deserted, and may there be no one who dwells in their tabernacles
    27: For they persecuted whomever you struck. And they have added to the grief of my wounds
    28: Assign an iniquity upon their iniquity, and may they not enter into your justice
    29: Delete them from the Book of the Living, and let them not be written down with the just
    30: I am poor and sorrowful, but your salvation, O God, has taken me up
    31: I will praise the name of God with a canticle, and I will magnify him with praise
    32: And it will please God more than a new calf producing horns and hoofs
    33: Let the poor see and rejoice. Seek God, and your soul will live
    34: For the Lord has heard the poor, and he has not despised his prisoners
    35: Let the heavens and the earth praise him: the sea, and everything that crawls in it
    36: For God will save Zion, and the cities of Judah will be built up. And they will dwell there, and they will acquire it by inheritance
    37: And the offspring of his servants will possess it; and those who love his name will dwell in it

End of day 152.