Day 26:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then, the eighth day having arrived, Moses called Aaron and his sons, and those greater by birth from Israel, and he said to Aaron
    2: “Take a calf for sin from the herd, and a ram as a holocaust, both immaculate, and offer them in the sight of the Lord
    3: And to the sons of Israel, you shall say: ‘Take a he-goat for sin, and a calf as well as a lamb, both one-year-old and without blemish, as a holocaust
    4: Take also an ox and a ram for peace offerings. And immolate them before the Lord, offering with the sacrifice of each one fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil. For today the Lord will appear to you.’ 
    5: And so they brought everything that Moses had ordered before the door of the tabernacle, where, when all the multitude stood together
    6: Moses said: “This is the word, which the Lord has instructed. Accomplish it, and his glory will appear to you.
    7: And he said to Aaron: “Approach toward the altar, and immolate on behalf of your sin. Offer the holocaust, and pray for yourself and for the people. And when you have slain the victim for the people, pray for them, just as the Lord has instructed.
    8: And immediately Aaron, approaching toward the altar, immolated the calf for his sin
    9: And his sons brought its blood to him, and dipping his finger in it, he touched the horns of the altar, and he poured out the remainder at its base
    10: And the fat, and the little kidneys, and the mesh of the liver, which are for sin, he burned upon the altar, just as the Lord had instructed Moses
    11: Yet truly, the flesh and its skins he burned with fire beyond the camp
    12: He also immolated the victim of holocaust. And his sons brought its blood to him, which he poured out all around the altar
    13: And when the victim itself was cut into pieces, they brought him the head and each of the limbs, all of which he burned with fire upon the altar
    14: having first washed the intestines and the feet with water
    15: And making an offering for the sin of the people, he slew the he-goat. And expiating the altar
    16: he accomplished the holocaust
    17: adding to it the sacrifice of the libations, which are to be offered together, and burning them upon the altar, separately from the ceremonies of the morning holocaust
    18: He also immolated the ox, as well as the ram, as peace offerings for the people. And his sons brought him the blood, which he poured out upon the altar all around
    19: Then the fat of the ox, and the rump of the ram, and the two little kidneys with their fat, and the mesh of the liver
    20: they placed upon the breasts. And when the fat had been burned upon the altar
    21: Aaron separated their breasts and the right shoulders, lifting them up in the sight of the Lord, as Moses had instructed
    22: And extending his hands to the people, he blessed them. And so, the victims for sin, and the holocausts, and the peace offerings being completed, he descended
    23: Then Moses and Aaron entered the tabernacle of the testimony, and afterwards came out and blessed the people. And the glory of the Lord appeared to the entire multitude
    24: And, behold, a fire from the Lord devoured the holocaust, and the fat which was on the altar. When the crowd had seen this, they praised the Lord, falling on their faces

  Chapter 10.

    1: And the sons of Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, picking up their censers, placed fire in them and incense upon them, offering in the sight of the Lord a strange fire, such as was not instructed of them
    2: And fire coming out from the Lord destroyed them, and they died in the sight of the Lord
    3: And Moses said to Aaron: “This is what the Lord has spoken: ‘I will be sanctified in those who approach me, and I will be glorified in the sight of all the people.’ ” And upon hearing this, Aaron was silent
    4: Then Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, the paternal uncle of Aaron, and he said to them, “Go and take your brothers from the sight of the Sanctuary, and carry them beyond the camp.
    5: And moving quickly, they took them as they lay, vested with linen tunics, and cast them outside, just as had been commanded them
    6: And Moses said to Aaron, and to his sons, Eleazar and Ithamar: “Do not uncover your heads, and do not rend your garments, lest perhaps you may die, and indignation may rise up over the entire assembly. Let your brothers, and all the house of Israel, bewail the burning that the Lord has kindled
    7: But you shall not depart from the door of the tabernacle; otherwise, you shall perish. For certainly the oil of holy anointing is upon you.” And they did all things according to the precept of Moses
    8: The Lord also said to Aaron
    9: “You shall not drink wine, nor anything that is able to inebriate you or your sons, when you enter into the tabernacle of the testimony, lest you die. For it is an everlasting precept in your generations
    10: And so may you have the knowledge to discern between holy and profane, between polluted and clean
    11: And so may you teach the sons of Israel all my ordinances, which the Lord has spoken to them by the hand of Moses.
    12: And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, who were remaining: “Take the sacrifice which remains from the oblation of the Lord, and eat it without leaven next to the altar, because it is the Holy of holies
    13: For you shall eat it in a holy place, which is given to you and to your sons, from the oblations of the Lord, just as has been instructed me
    14: Likewise, the breast which is offered, and the shoulder which is separated, you shall eat in a most clean place, you and your sons, and your daughters with you. For these have been set aside for you and your children from the victims which benefit the sons of Israel
    15: Since they have lifted up in the sight of the Lord, the shoulder, and the breast, and the fat that is burned on the altar, these also belong to you and to your sons as a perpetual law, just as the Lord has instructed.
    16: Meanwhile, when Moses was searching for the he-goat, which had been offered for sin, he discovered it burned up. And being angry against Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were remaining, he said
    17: “Why did you not eat the sacrifice for sin in the holy place, which is the Holy of holies, and which was given to you, so that you might carry the iniquity of the people, and might pray for them in the sight of the Lord
    18: especially since none of its blood has been brought into the holy places, and since you should have eaten it in the Sanctuary, as was instructed me?
    19: Aaron responded: “This day, the victim for sin has been offered, and the holocaust in the sight of the Lord. But you see what has happened to me. How could I eat it, or please the Lord in the ceremonies, having a sorrowful mind?
    20: But when Moses had heard this, he was satisfied

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying
    2: Say to the sons of Israel: These are the animals that you ought to eat out of all the living things of the earth
    3: All that has a divided hoof, and that chews over again, among the cattle, you shall eat
    4: But whatever certainly chews over again, but has a hoof that is not divided, such as the camel and others, these you shall not eat, and you shall consider them to be among what is unclean
    5: The rock rabbit which chews over again, and whose hoof is not divided, is unclean
    6: and so also is the hare, for it too chews over again, yet its hoof is not divided
    7: and also the swine, which, though its hoof is divided, does not chew over again
    8: The flesh of these you shall not eat, nor shall you touch their carcasses, because they are unclean to you
    9: These are the things that breed in the waters, and which it is lawful to eat. All that has little fins and scales, as much in the sea, as in the rivers and ponds, you shall eat
    10: But whatever does not have fins and scales, of those things that live and move in the waters, shall be abominable to you
    11: and detestable; their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall avoid
    12: All that does not have fins and scales in the waters shall be polluted
    13: These are those things among the birds which you must not eat, and which are to be avoided by you: the eagle, and the griffin, and the osprey
    14: and the kite, as well as the vulture, according to their kind
    15: and all that is of the raven kind, according to their likeness
    16: the ostrich, and the owl, and the gull, and the hawk, according to its kind
    17: the owl, and the sea bird, and the ibis
    18: and the swan, and the pelican, and the marsh hen
    19: the heron, and the plover according to its kind, the crested hoopoe, and also the bat
    20: Of all that flies, whatever steps upon four feet shall be abominable to you
    21: But whatever certainly walks upon four feet, and also has longer legs behind, with which it hops upon the earth
    22: you shall eat, such as the beetle in its kind, and the cricket, and grasshopper, and the locust, each one according to its kind
    23: But among flying things, whatever has only four feet shall be detestable to you
    24: And whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be defiled, and he shall be unclean until evening
    25: And if it will be necessary to carry any of these dead things, he shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean until the sun sets
    26: Every animal that certainly has a hoof, but which is not divided, nor does it chew over again, shall be unclean. And whoever will have touched it shall be contaminated
    27: Whatever walks upon its hands, out of all the animals that advance on all fours, shall be unclean. Whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be polluted until evening
    28: And whoever will have carried this kind of carcass shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean until evening. For all these are unclean to you
    29: Likewise, these shall be considered among the polluted things, out of all that moves upon the earth: the weasel, and the mouse, and the crocodile, each one according to its kind
    30: the shrew, and the chameleon, and the gecko, and the lizard, and the mole
    31: All these are unclean. Whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be unclean until evening
    32: And anything upon which something from their carcasses will have fallen shall be defiled, whether it is a vessel of wood, or a garment, or skins, or haircloths, or anything by which work is done. These shall be dipped in water and shall be defiled until evening, but then afterwards these shall be clean
    33: But an earthen vessel, into which something from these will fall, shall be defiled; and therefore it is to be broken
    34: Any of the foods that you eat, if water from such a vessel will have been poured upon it, it shall be unclean. And every liquid which one may drink from such a vessel shall be unclean
    35: And if anything from among these kinds of dead things has fallen upon it, it shall be unclean, whether it be an oven, or a pot with feet, these shall be unclean and shall be destroyed
    36: Yet truly, fountains and cisterns, and all reservoirs of water shall be clean. Whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be defiled
    37: If it falls upon seed grain, it shall not defile it
    38: But if anyone has poured water upon the seed grain, and afterwards it was touched by the carcasses, it shall be immediately defiled
    39: If any animals will have died, from which it is lawful for you to eat, whoever will have touched its carcass shall be unclean until evening
    40: And whoever will have eaten or carried anything of these shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean until evening
    41: All that creeps across the earth shall be abominable, neither shall it taken up as food
    42: Whatever advances by four feet upon the chest, or that has many feet, or that drags across the soil, you shall not eat, because it is abominable
    43: Do not be willing to contaminate your souls, nor shall you touch any of these, lest you become unclean
    44: For I am the Lord your God. Be holy, for I am Holy. Do not pollute your souls with any creeping thing, which moves across the land
    45: For I am the Lord, who led you away from the land of Egypt, so that I would be your God; you shall be holy, for I am Holy
    46: This is the law of animals and flying things, and of every living soul that moves in the waters or creeps upon the land
    47: so that you may know the difference between clean and unclean, and so that you may know what you ought to eat, and what you ought to refuse

  Chapter 12.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: A woman, if she has received the seed to bear a male, shall be unclean for seven days, just as in the days of separation due to menstruation
    3: And on the eighth day, the little infant shall be circumcised
    4: Yet truly, she herself shall remain for thirty-three days in the blood of her purification. She shall not touch anything holy, nor shall she enter into the Sanctuary, until the days of her purification are completed
    5: But if she will bear a female, she shall be unclean for two weeks, according to the custom of her monthly flow, and she shall remain in the blood of her purification for sixty-six days
    6: And when the days of her purification have been completed, for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring to the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust, and a young pigeon or a turtledove for sin, and she shall deliver them to the priest
    7: He shall offer them in the sight of the Lord, and he shall pray for her. And so she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood. This is the law for one who bears a male or a female
    8: And if her hand has not obtained or been able to offer a lamb, she shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons: one as a holocaust, and the other for sin. And the priest shall pray for her, and so she shall be cleansed

End of day 26.