Day 141:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Unto the end. For the tasks of early morning. A Psalm of David
    2: O God, my God, look upon me. Why have you forsaken me? Far from my salvation are the words of my offenses
    3: My God, I will cry out by day, and you will not heed, and by night, and it will not be foolishness for me
    4: But you dwell in holiness, O Praise of Israel
    5: In you, our fathers have hoped. They hoped, and you freed them
    6: They cried out to you, and they were saved. In you, they hoped and were not confounded
    7: But I am a worm and not a man: a disgrace among men, and an outcast of the people
    8: All those who saw me have derided me. They have spoken with the lips and shook the head
    9: He has hoped in the Lord, let him rescue him. Let him save him because he chooses him
    10: For you are the one who has drawn me out of the womb, my hope from the breasts of my mother
    11: I have been thrown upon you from the womb; from the womb of my mother, you are my God
    12: Do not depart from me. For tribulation is near, since there is no one who may help me
    13: Many calves have surrounded me; fat bulls have besieged me
    14: They have opened their mouths over me, just like a lion seizing and roaring
    15: And so, I have been poured out like water, and all my bones have been scattered. My heart has become like wax, melting in the midst of my chest
    16: My strength has dried up like clay, and my tongue has adhered to my jaws. And you have pulled me down, into the dust of death
    17: For many dogs have surrounded me. The council of the malicious has besieged me. They have pierced my hands and feet
    18: They have numbered all my bones. And they have examined me and stared at me
    19: They divided my garments among them, and over my vestment, they cast lots
    20: But you, O Lord, do not take your help far from me; be attentive to my defense
    21: O God, rescue my soul from the spear, and my only one from the hand of the dog
    22: Save me from the mouth of the lion, and my humility from the horns of the single-horned beast
    23: I will declare your name to my brothers. In the midst of the Church, I will praise you
    24: You who fear the Lord, praise him. All the offspring of Jacob, glorify him
    25: May all the offspring of Israel fear him. For he has neither spurned nor despised the pleas of the poor. Neither has he turned his face away from me. And when I cried out to him, he heeded me
    26: My praise is with you, within a great church. I will pay my vows in the sight of those who fear him
    27: The poor will eat and be satisfied, and those who yearn for the Lord will praise him. Their hearts will live forever and ever
    28: All the ends of the earth will remember, and they will be converted to the Lord. And all the families of the Gentiles will adore in his sight
    29: For the kingdom belongs to the Lord, and he will have dominion over the Gentiles
    30: All the fat of the earth have gnashed their teeth, and they have adored. In his sight, they will fall down, all those who descend to the ground
    31: And my soul will live for him, and my offspring will serve him
    32: There will be announced for the Lord a future generation, and the heavens will announce his justice to a people who will be born, whom the Lord has made

  Chapter 22.

    1: A Psalm of David. The Lord directs me, and nothing will be lacking to me
    2: He has settled me here, in a place of pasture. He has led me out to the water of refreshment
    3: He has converted my soul. He has led me away on the paths of justice, for the sake of his name
    4: For, even if I should walk in the midst of the shadow of death, I will fear no evils. For you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they have given me consolation
    5: You have prepared a table in my sight, opposite those who trouble me. You have anointed my head with oil, and my cup, which inebriates me, how brilliant it is
    6: And your mercy will follow me all the days of my life, and so may I dwell in the house of the Lord for length of days

  Chapter 23.

    1: For the First Sabbath. A Psalm of David. The earth and all its fullness belong to the Lord: the whole world and all that dwells in it
    2: For he has founded it upon the seas, and he has prepared it upon the rivers
    3: Who will ascend to the mountain of the Lord? And who will stand in his holy place
    4: The innocent of hands and the clean of heart, who has not received his soul in vain, nor sworn deceitfully to his neighbor
    5: He will receive a blessing from the Lord, and mercy from God, his Saviour
    6: This is the generation that seeks him, that seeks the face of the God of Jacob
    7: Lift up your gates, you princes, and be lifted up, eternal gates. And the King of Glory shall enter
    8: Who is this King of Glory? The Lord who is strong and powerful; the Lord powerful in battle
    9: Lift up your gates, you princes, and be lifted up, eternal gates. And the King of Glory shall enter
    10: Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of virtue. He himself is the King of Glory

  Chapter 24.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David. To you, Lord, I have lifted up my soul
    2: In you, my God, I trust. Let me not be put to shame
    3: And do not let my enemies laugh at me. For all who remain with you will not be confounded
    4: May all those who act unjustly over nothing be confounded. O Lord, demonstrate your ways to me, and teach me your paths
    5: Direct me in your truth, and teach me. For you are God, my Saviour, and I remain with you all day long
    6: O Lord, remember your compassion and your mercies, which are from ages past
    7: Do not remember the offenses of my youth and my ignorances. Remember me according to your mercy, because of your goodness, O Lord
    8: The Lord is sweet and righteous. Because of this, he will grant a law to those who fall short in the way
    9: He will direct the mild in judgment. He will teach the meek his ways
    10: All the ways of the Lord are mercy and truth, to those who yearn for his covenant and his testimonies
    11: Because of your name, O Lord, you will pardon my sin, for it is great
    12: Which is the man who fears the Lord? He has established a law for him, on the way that he has chosen
    13: His soul will dwell upon good things, and his offspring will inherit the earth
    14: The Lord is a firmament to those who fear him, and his covenant will be made manifest to them
    15: My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he will pull my feet from the snare
    16: Look upon me and have mercy on me; for I am alone and poor
    17: The troubles of my heart have been multiplied. Deliver me from my needfulness
    18: See my lowliness and my hardship, and release all my offenses
    19: Consider my enemies, for they have been multiplied, and they have hated me with an unjust hatred
    20: Preserve my soul and rescue me. I will not be ashamed, for I have hoped in you
    21: The innocent and the righteous have adhered to me, because I have remained with you
    22: Free Israel, O God, from all his tribulations

End of day 141.