Day 149:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['53', '54', '55', '56']:

  Chapter 53.

    1: Unto the end. In verses, the understanding of David
    2: when the Ziphites had arrived and they said to Saul, “Has not David been hidden with us?
    3: Save me, O God, by your name, and judge me in your virtue
    4: O God, listen to my prayer. Pay attention to the words of my mouth
    5: For strangers have risen up against me, and the strong have sought my soul. And they have not set God before their eyes
    6: For behold, God is my helper, and the Lord is the protector of my soul
    7: Turn back the evils upon my adversaries, and ruin them by your truth
    8: I will freely sacrifice to you, and I will confess your name, O God, because it is good
    9: For you have quickly rescued me from all tribulation, and my eye has looked down upon my enemies

  Chapter 54.

    1: Unto the end. In verses, the understanding of David
    2: Listen to my prayer, O God, and despise not my supplication
    3: Be attentive to me, and heed me. I have been grieved in my training, and I have been disturbe
    4: at the voice of the adversary and at the tribulation of the sinner. For they have diverted iniquities toward me, and they have been harassing me with rage
    5: My heart has become disturbed within me, and the dread of death has fallen over me
    6: Fear and trembling have overwhelmed me, and darkness has buried me
    7: And I said, “Who will give me wings like the dove, so that I may fly away and take rest?
    8: Behold, I have fled far away, and I linger in solitude
    9: I waited for him who saved me from a weak-minded spirit and from a tempest
    10: Cast them down, O Lord, and divide their tongues. For I have seen iniquity and contradiction in the city
    11: Day and night, iniquity will surround it upon its walls, and hardship is in its midst
    12: with injustice. And usury and deceit have not fallen away from its streets
    13: For if my enemy had spoken evil about me, certainly, I would have sustained it. And if he who hated me had been speaking great things against me, I would perhaps have hidden myself from him
    14: Truly, you are a man of one mind: my leader and my acquaintance
    15: who took sweet food together with me. In the house of God, we walked side-by-side
    16: Let death come upon them, and let them descend alive into Hellfire. For there is wickedness in their dwellings, in their midst
    17: But I have cried out to God, and the Lord will save me
    18: Evening and morning and midday, I will discourse and announce, and he will heed my voice
    19: He will redeem my soul in peace from those who draw near to me. For, among the many, they were with me
    20: God will hear, and He who is before time will humble them. For there is no change with them, and they have not feared God
    21: He has stretched forth his hand in retribution. They have contaminated his covenant
    22: They were divided by the wrath of his countenance, and his heart has drawn near. His words are smoother than oil, and they are arrows
    23: Cast your cares upon the Lord, and he will nurture you. He will not allow the just to be tossed about forever
    24: Truly, O God, you will lead them away into the well of death. Bloody and deceitful men will not divide their days in half. But I will hope in you, O Lord

  Chapter 55.

    1: Unto the end. For the people who have become far removed from the Sacred. Of David, with the inscription of a title, when the Philistines held him in Gath
    2: Have mercy on me, O God, because man has trampled over me. All day long, he has afflicted me by fighting against me
    3: My enemies have trampled over me all day long. For those who make war against me are many
    4: From the height of the day, I will be afraid. But truly, I will hope in you
    5: In God, I will praise my words. In God, I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do to me
    6: All day long, they curse my words. All their intentions are for evil against me
    7: They will dwell and hide themselves. They will watch my heel, just as they waited for my soul
    8: because of this, nothing will save them. In your anger, you will crush the people
    9: O God, I have announced my life to you. You have placed my tears in your sight, and even in your promise
    10: Then my enemies will be turned back. On whatever day that I call upon you, behold, I know that you are my God
    11: In God, I will praise the word. In the Lord, I will praise his speech. In God, I have hoped. I will not fear what man can do to me
    12: My vows to you, O God, are in me. I will repay them. Praises be to you
    13: For you have rescued my soul from death and my feet from slipping, so that I may be pleasing in the sight of God, in the light of the living

  Chapter 56.

    1: Unto the end. May you not destroy. Of David, with the inscription of a title, when he fled from Saul into a cave
    2: Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For my soul trusts in you. And I will hope in the shadow of your wings, until iniquity passes away
    3: I will cry out to God Most High, to God who has been kind to me
    4: He sent from heaven and freed me. He has surrendered into disgrace those who trampled me. God has sent his mercy and his truth
    5: And he has rescued my soul from the midst of the young lions. I slept troubled. The sons of men: their teeth are weapons and arrows, and their tongue is a sharp sword
    6: Be exalted above the heavens, O God, and your glory above all the earth
    7: They prepared a snare for my feet, and they bowed down my soul. They dug a pit before my face, yet they have fallen into it
    8: My heart is prepared, O God, my heart is prepared. I will sing, and I will compose a psalm
    9: Rise up, my glory. Rise up, psaltery and harp. I will arise in early morning
    10: I will confess to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will compose a psalm to you among the nations
    11: For your mercy has been magnified, even to the heavens, and your truth, even to the clouds
    12: Be exalted above the heavens, O God, and your glory above all the earth

End of day 149.