Day 14:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: These are the names of the sons of Israel, who went into Egypt with Jacob. They entered, each one with his house
    2: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah
    3: Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin
    4: Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher
    5: Therefore, all the souls of those who went forth from Jacob’s thigh were seventy. Now Joseph was in Egypt
    6: When he had died, along with all of his brothers and all of that generation
    7: the sons of Israel increased, and they multiplied like seedlings. And having been strengthened exceedingly, they filled the land
    8: Meanwhile, there arose a new king over Egypt, who was ignorant of Joseph
    9: And he said to his people: “Behold, the people of the sons of Israel are many, and they are stronger than we are
    10: Come, let us wisely oppress them, lest they multiply; and if any war should advance against us, they may be added to our enemies, and having fought against us, they might depart from the land.
    11: And so he set over them masters of the works, in order to afflict them with burdens. And they built for Pharaoh the cities of the tabernacles: Pithom and Raamses
    12: And the more they oppressed them, so much more did they multiply and increase
    13: And the Egyptians hated the sons of Israel, and they afflicted them and mocked them
    14: And they led their life directly into bitterness, with hard work in clay and brick, and with all kinds of servitude, so that they were being overwhelmed with the works of the land
    15: Then the king of Egypt spoke to the midwives of the Hebrews, (one of whom one was called Shiphrah, another Puah
    16: instructing them: “When you will act as a midwife to the Hebrew women, and the time of delivery has arrived: if it is male, put it to death; if it is female, retain it.
    17: But the midwives feared God, and so they did not act according to the precept of the king of Egypt, but they kept the males safe
    18: And summoning them, the king said, “What did you intend to do, so that you would save the boys?
    19: They responded: “The Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women. For they themselves have the wisdom of a midwife, and so they give birth before we can come to them.
    20: Therefore, God acted favorably toward the midwives. And the people increased, and they were strengthened exceedingly
    21: And because the midwives feared God, he built houses for them
    22: Therefore, Pharaoh instructed all his people, saying: “Whatever will be born of the male sex, cast it into the river; whatever will be born of the female sex, retain it.

  Chapter 2.

    1: After these things, a man from the house of Levi went out, and he took a wife from his own stock
    2: And she conceived and bore a son. And seeing him to be handsome, she hid him for three months
    3: And when she was no longer able to hide him, she took a small basket woven of bulrushes, and she smeared it with pitch as well as tar. And she placed the little infant inside, and she laid him in the sedges by the bank of the river
    4: His sister was standing at a distance and was wondering what would happen
    5: Then, behold, the daughter of Pharaoh descended to wash in the river. And her maids walked along the edge of the cove. And when she had seen the small basket among the papyruses, she sent one of her servants for it. And when it was brought
    6: she opened it; and realizing that within it was a little one crying, she took pity on him, and she said: “This is one of the infants of the Hebrews.
    7: And the sister of the boy said to her: “If you wish, I will go and call to you a Hebrew woman, who will be able nurse the infant.
    8: She responded, “Go.” The maid went directly and called her mother
    9: And the daughter of Pharaoh said to her: “Take this boy and nurse him for me. I will give you your wages.” The woman took and nursed the boy. And when he was mature, she delivered him to the daughter of Pharaoh
    10: And she adopted him in place of a son, and she called his name Moses, saying, “Because I took him from the water.
    11: In those days, after Moses had grown up, he went out to his brothers. And he saw their affliction and an Egyptian man striking a certain one of the Hebrews, his brothers
    12: And when he had looked around this way and that, and had seen no one nearby, he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand
    13: And going out the next day, he spotted two Hebrews quarrelling violently. And he said to him who was causing the injury, “Why do you strike your neighbor?
    14: But he responded: “Who appointed you as leader and judge over us? Do you want to kill me, just as yesterday you killed the Egyptian?” Moses was afraid, and he said, “How has this word become known?
    15: And Pharaoh heard this talk, and he sought to kill Moses. But fleeing from his sight, he stayed in the land of Midian, and he sat down next to a well
    16: Now there was a priest of Midian with seven daughters, who came to draw water. And having filled the troughs, they desired to water their father’s flocks
    17: The shepherds overcame them and drove them away. And Moses rose up, and defending the girls, he watered their sheep
    18: And when they had returned to their father, Reuel, he said to them, “Why have you arrived sooner than usual?
    19: They responded: “A man of Egypt freed us from the hands of the shepherds. Moreover, he also drew water with us and gave the sheep to drink.
    20: But he said: “Where is he? Why have you dismissed the man? Call him, so that he may eat bread.
    21: Therefore, Moses swore that he would live with him. And he accepted his daughter Zipporah as a wife
    22: And she bore a son to him, whom he called Gershom, saying, “I have been a newcomer in a foreign land.” In truth, she bore another, whom he called Eliezer, saying, “For the God of my father, my helper, has rescued me from the hand of Pharaoh.
    23: In truth, after a long time, the king of Egypt was dead. And the sons of Israel, groaning, cried out because of the works. And their cry ascended to God from the works
    24: And he heard their groaning, and he also remembered the covenant which he formed with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
    25: And the Lord looked with favor on the sons of Israel, and he knew them

  Chapter 3.

    1: Now Moses was pasturing the sheep of his father-in-law Jethro, a priest of Midian. And when he had driven the flock into the interior of the desert, he came to the mountain of God, Horeb
    2: And the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of a bush. And he saw that the bush was burning and was not burnt
    3: Therefore, Moses said, “I will go and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt.
    4: Then the Lord, discerning that he proceeded on to see it, called to him from the midst of the bush, and he said, “Moses, Moses.” And he responded, “Here I am.
    5: And he said: “Lest you should approach here,  remove the shoes from your feet. For the place on which you stand is holy ground.
    6: And he said, “I am the God of your father: the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” Moses hid his face, for he dared not look directly at God
    7: And the Lord said to him: “I have seen the affliction of my people in Egypt, and I have heard their outcry because of the harshness of those who are over the works
    8: And knowing their sorrow, I have descended in order to free them from the hands of the Egyptians, and to lead them from that land into a good and spacious land, into a land which flows with milk and honey, to the places of the Canaanite, and Hittite, and Amorite, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite
    9: And so, the outcry of the sons of Israel has come to me. And I have seen their affliction, with which they are oppressed by the Egyptians
    10: But come, and I will send you to Pharaoh, so that you may lead my people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt.
    11: And Moses said to God, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and that I should lead the sons of Israel out of Egypt?
    12: And he said to him: “I will be with you. And you will have this as a sign that I have sent you: When you will have brought my people out of Egypt, you will offer sacrifice to God upon this mountain.
    13: Moses said to God: “Behold, I will go to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you.’ If they say to me, ‘What is his name?’ What shall I say to them?
    14: God said to Moses, “I AM WHO AM.” He said: “Thus shall you say to the sons of Israel: ‘HE WHO IS has sent me to you.’ 
    15: And God said again to Moses: “Thus shall you say to the sons of Israel: ‘The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.’ This is the name for me in eternity, and this is my memorial from generation to generation
    16: Go and gather together the elders of Israel, and you shall say to them: ‘The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying: When visiting, I have visited you, and I have seen all that has befallen you in Egypt
    17: And I have spoken in order to lead you out of the affliction of Egypt, into the land of the Canaanite, and Hittite, and Amorite, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite, into a land flowing with milk and honey.
    18: And they shall hear your voice. And you shall enter, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you shall say to him: ‘The Lord God of the Hebrews has called us. We shall go three days’ journey into the wilderness, in order to offer sacrifice to the Lord our God.
    19: But I know that the king of Egypt will not release you, unless you go out by a powerful hand
    20: For I will extend my hand, and I will strike Egypt with all my wonders that I will do in the midst of them. After these things, he will release you
    21: And I will grant favor to this people in the sight of the Egyptians. And so, when you go forth, you shall not go out empty
    22: But every woman shall ask of her neighbor and of her hostess vessels of silver and of gold, as well as garments. And you shall set them upon your sons and daughters, and you shall despoil Egypt.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Responding, Moses said, “They will not believe me, and they will not listen to my voice, but they will say: ‘The Lord has not appeared to you.’ 
    2: Therefore, he said to him, “What is that you hold in your hand?” He answered, “A staff.
    3: And the Lord said, “Cast it down upon the ground.” He cast it down, and it was turned into a snake, so that Moses fled away
    4: And the Lord said, “Reach out your hand, and take hold of its tail.” He reached out his hand and took hold, and it was turned into a staff
    5: “So may they believe,” he said, “that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.
    6: And the Lord said again, “Put your hand into your bosom.” And when he had put it into his bosom, he brought it out leprous, resembling snow
    7: “Put your hand back,” he said, “into your bosom.” He put it back and brought it out again, and it was like the rest of his flesh
    8: “If they will not believe you,” he said, “and will not listen to the sermon of the first sign, then they will believe the word of the subsequent sign
    9: But if they will not believe even these two signs, and they will not listen to your voice: take from the water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land, and whatever you will have drawn from the river will be turned into blood.
    10: Moses said: “I beg you, O Lord, I was not eloquent yesterday or the day before. And from the time that you have spoken to your servant, I have a greater impediment and slowness of tongue.
    11: The Lord said to him: “Who made the mouth of man? And who has formed the mute and the deaf, the seeing and the blind? Was it not I
    12: Go on, therefore, and I will be in your mouth. And I will teach you what you shall say.
    13: But he said, “I beg you, O Lord, send whomever else you would send.
    14: The Lord, being angry at Moses, said: “Aaron the Levite is your brother. I know that he is eloquent. Behold, he is going out to meet you, and seeing you, he will rejoice in heart
    15: Speak to him, and put my words in his mouth. And I will be in your mouth and in his mouth, and I will reveal to you what you must do
    16: He will speak for you to the people, and he will be your mouth. But you will be with him in those things that pertain to God
    17: Also, take this staff into your hand; with it you will accomplish the signs.
    18: Moses went forth, and he returned to Jethro, his father in law, and he said to him, “I shall go and return to my brothers in Egypt, so that I may see if they are still alive.” And Jethro said to him, “Go in peace.
    19: And so the Lord said to Moses in Midian: “Go, and return to Egypt. For all those who sought your life have died.
    20: Therefore, Moses took his wife and his sons, and he placed them upon a donkey, and he returned into Egypt, carrying the staff of God in his hand
    21: And the Lord said to him, as he was returning to Egypt: “See that you accomplish, in the sight of Pharaoh, all the wonders that I have placed in your hand. I will harden his heart, and he will not release the people
    22: And you shall say to him: ‘Thus says the Lord: Israel is my firstborn son
    23: I have said to you: Release my son, so that he may serve me. And you were not willing to release him. Behold, I will put to death your firstborn son.’ 
    24: And while he was on the journey, at an inn, the Lord met him, and he was willing to kill him
    25: For this reason, Zipporah took a very sharp stone, and she circumcised the foreskin of her son, and she touched his feet, and she said, “You are a bloody spouse to me.
    26: And he released him, after she had said, “You are a bloody spouse,” because of the circumcision
    27: Then the Lord said to Aaron, “Go into the desert to meet Moses.” And he went directly to meet him on the mountain of God, and he kissed him
    28: And Moses explained to Aaron all the words of the Lord, by which he had sent him, and the signs which he had commanded
    29: And they arrived at the same time, and they gathered together all the elders of the sons of Israel
    30: And Aaron spoke all the words which the Lord had said to Moses. And he accomplished the signs in the sight of the people
    31: and the people believed. And they heard that the Lord had visited the sons of Israel, and that he had looked with favor upon their affliction. And falling prostrate, they worshiped

End of day 14.