Day 310:

Reading Acts, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Now there were, in the Church at Antioch, prophets and teachers, among whom were Barnabas, and Simon, who was called the Black, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen, who was the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul
    2: Now as they were ministering for the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said to them: “Separate Saul and Barnabas for me, for the work for which I have selected them.
    3: Then, fasting and praying and imposing their hands upon them, they sent them away
    4: And having been sent by the Holy Spirit, they went to Seleucia. And from there they sailed to Cyprus
    5: And when they had arrived at Salamis, they were preaching the Word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they also had John in the ministry
    6: And when they had traveled throughout the entire island, even to Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-Jesu
    7: And he was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. This man, summoning Barnabas and Saul, wanted to hear the Word of God
    8: But Elymas the magician (for so his name is translated) stood against them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the Faith
    9: Then Saul, who is also called Paul, having been filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
    10: and he said: “So full of every deceit and of all falsehoods, son of the devil, enemy of all justice, you never cease to subvert the righteous ways of the Lord
    11: And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you. And you will be blinded, not seeing the sun for a length of time.” And immediately a fog and a darkness fell over him. And wandering around, he was seeking someone who might lead him by the hand
    12: Then the proconsul, when he had seen what was done, believed, being in wonder over the doctrine of the Lord
    13: And when Paul and those who were with him had sailed from Paphos, they arrived at Perga in Pamphylia. Then John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem
    14: Yet truly, they, traveling on from Perga, arrived at Antioch in Pisidia. And upon entering the synagogue on the Sabbath day, they sat down
    15: Then, after the reading from the Law and the Prophets, the leaders of the synagogue sent to them, saying: “Noble brothers, if there is in you any word of exhortation to the people, speak.
    16: Then Paul, rising up and motioning for silence with his hand, said: “Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen closely
    17: The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people, when they were settlers in the land of Egypt. And with an exalted arm, he led them away from there
    18: And throughout a time of forty years, he endured their behavior in the desert
    19: And by destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he divided their land among them by lot
    20: after about four hundred and fifty years. And after these things, he gave them judges, even until the prophet Samuel
    21: And later on, they petitioned for a king. And God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man from the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years
    22: And having removed him, he raised up for them king David. And offering testimony about him, he said, ‘I have found David, the son of Jesse, to be a man according to my own heart, who will accomplish all that I will.
    23: From his offspring, according to the Promise, God has brought Jesus the Savior to Israel
    24: John was preaching, before the face of his advent, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel
    25: Then, when John completed his course, he was saying: ‘I am not the one you consider me to be. For behold, one arrives after me, the shoes of whose feet I am not worthy to loosen.
    26: Noble brothers, sons of the stock of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, it is to you the Word of this salvation has been sent
    27: For those who were living in Jerusalem, and its rulers, heeding neither him, nor the voices of the Prophets that are read on every Sabbath, fulfilled these by judging him
    28: And although they found no case for death against him, they petitioned Pilate, so that they might put him to death
    29: And when they had fulfilled everything that had been written about him, taking him down from the tree, they placed him in a tomb
    30: Yet truly, God raised him up from the dead on the third day
    31: And he was seen for many days by those who went up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who even now are his witnesses to the people
    32: And we are announcing to you that the Promise, which was made to our fathers
    33: has been fulfilled by God for our children by raising up Jesus, just as it has been written in the second Psalm also: ‘You are my Son. This day I have begotten you.
    34: Now, since he raised him from the dead, so as to no longer return to corruption, he has said this: ‘I will give to you the holy things of David, the faithful one.
    35: And also then, in another place, he says: ‘You will not allow your Holy One to see corruption.
    36: For David, when he had ministered to his generation in accordance with the will of God, fell asleep, and he was placed next to his fathers, and he saw corruption
    37: Yet truly, he whom God has raised from the dead has not seen corruption
    38: Therefore, let it be known to you, noble brothers, that through him is announced to you remission from sins and from everything by which you were not able to be justified in the law of Moses
    39: In him, all who believe are justified
    40: Therefore, be careful, lest what was said by the Prophets may overwhelm you
    41: ‘You despisers! Look, and wonder, and be scattered! For I am working a deed in your days, a deed which you would not believe, even if someone were to explain it to you.’ 
    42: Then, as they were departing, they asked them if, on the following Sabbath, they might speak these words to them
    43: And when the synagogue had been dismissed, many among the Jews and the new worshipers were following Paul and Barnabas. And they, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God
    44: Yet truly, on the following Sabbath, nearly the entire city came together to hear the Word of God
    45: Then the Jews, seeing the crowds, were filled with envy, and they, blaspheming, contradicted the things that were being said by Paul
    46: Then Paul and Barnabas said firmly: “It was necessary to speak the Word of God first to you. But because you reject it, and so judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles
    47: For so has the Lord instructed us: ‘I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, so that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.’ 
    48: Then the Gentiles, upon hearing this, were gladdened, and they were glorifying the Word of the Lord. And as many as believed were preordained to eternal life
    49: Now the word of the Lord was disseminated throughout the entire region
    50: But the Jews incited some devout and honest women, and the leaders of the city. And they stirred up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas. And they drove them away from their parts
    51: But they, shaking the dust from their feet against them, went on to Iconium
    52: The disciples were likewise filled with gladness and with the Holy Spirit

  Chapter 14.

    1: Now it happened in Iconium that they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and they spoke in such a way that a copious multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed
    2: Yet truly, the Jews who were unbelieving had incited and enflamed the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers
    3: And so, they remained for a long time, acting faithfully in the Lord, offering testimony to the Word of his grace, providing signs and wonders done by their hands
    4: Then the multitude of the city was divided. And certainly, some were with the Jews, yet truly others were with the Apostles
    5: Now when an assault had been planned by the Gentiles and the Jews with their leaders, so that they might treat them with contempt and stone them
    6: they, realizing this, fled together to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the entire surrounding region. And they were evangelizing in that place
    7: And a certain man was sitting at Lystra, disabled in his feet, lame from his mother’s womb, who had never walked
    8: This man heard Paul speaking. And Paul, gazing at him intently, and perceiving that he had faith, so that he might be healed
    9: said with a loud voice, “Stand upright upon your feet!” And he leaped up and walked around
    10: But when the crowds had seen what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice in the Lycaonian language, saying, “The gods, having taken the likenesses of men, have descended to us!
    11: And they called Barnabas, ‘Jupiter,’ yet truly they called Paul, ‘Mercury,’ because he was the lead speaker
    12: Also, the priest of Jupiter, who was outside the city, in front of the gate, bringing in oxen and garlands, was willing to offer sacrifice with the people
    13: And as soon as the Apostles, Barnabas and Paul, had heard this, tearing their tunics, they leapt into the crowd, crying ou
    14: and saying: “Men, why would you do this? We also are mortals, men like yourselves, preaching to you to be converted, from these vain things, to the living God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them
    15: In previous generations, he permitted all nations to walk in their own ways
    16: But certainly, he did not leave himself without testimony, doing good from heaven, giving rains and fruitful seasons, filling their hearts with food and gladness.
    17: And by saying these things, they were barely able to restrain the crowds from immolating to them
    18: Now certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium arrived there. And having persuaded the crowd, they stoned Paul and dragged him outside of the city, thinking him to be dead
    19: But as the disciples were standing around him, he got up and entered the city. And the next day, he set out with Barnabas for Derbe
    20: And when they had evangelized that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch
    21: strengthening the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them that they should remain always in the faith, and that it is necessary for us to enter into the kingdom of God through many tribulations
    22: And when they had established priests for them in each church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, in whom they believed
    23: And traveling by way of Pisidia, they arrived in Pamphylia
    24: And having spoken the word of the Lord in Perga, they went down into Attalia
    25: And from there, they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had now accomplished
    26: And when they had arrived and had gathered together the church, they related what great things God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles
    27: And they remained for no small amount of time with the disciples

  Chapter 15.

    1: And certain ones, descending from Judea, were teaching the brothers, “Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.
    2: Therefore, when Paul and Barnabas made no small uprising against them, they decided that Paul and Barnabas, and some from the opposing side, should go up to the Apostles and priests in Jerusalem concerning this question
    3: Therefore, being led by the church, they traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria, describing the conversion of the Gentiles. And they caused great joy among all the brothers
    4: And when they had arrived in Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the Apostles and the elders, reporting what great things God had done with them
    5: But some from the sect of the Pharisees, those who were believers, rose up saying, “It is necessary for them to be circumcised and to be instructed to keep the Law of Moses.
    6: And the Apostles and elders came together to take care of this matter
    7: And after a great contention had taken place, Peter rose up and said to them: “Noble brothers, you know that, in recent days, God has chosen from among us, by my mouth, Gentiles to hear the word of the Gospel and to believe
    8: And God, who knows hearts, offered testimony, by giving the Holy Spirit to them, just as to us
    9: And he distinguished nothing between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith
    10: Now therefore, why do you tempt God to impose a yoke upon the necks of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear
    11: But by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we believe in order to be saved, in the same manner also as them.
    12: Then the entire multitude was silent. And they were listening to Barnabas and Paul, describing what great signs and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles through them
    13: And after they had been silent, James responded by saying: “Noble brothers, listen to me
    14: Simon has explained in what manner God first visited, so as to take from the Gentiles a people to his name
    15: And the words of the Prophets are in agreement with this, just as it was written
    16: ‘After these things, I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down. And I will rebuild its ruins, and I will raise it up
    17: so that the rest of men may seek the Lord, along with all the nations over whom my name has been invoked, says the Lord, who does these things.
    18: To the Lord, his own work has been known from eternity
    19: Because of this, I judge that those who were converted to God from among the Gentiles are not to be disturbed
    20: but instead that we write to them, that they should keep themselves from the defilement of idols, and from fornication, and from whatever has been suffocated, and from blood
    21: For Moses, from ancient times, has had in each city those who preach him in the synagogues, where he is read on every Sabbath.
    22: Then it pleased the Apostles and elders, with the whole Church, to choose men from among them, and to send to Antioch, with Paul and Barnabas, and Judas, who was surnamed Barsabbas, and Silas, preeminent men among the brothers
    23: what was written by their own hands: “The Apostles and elders, brothers, to those who are at Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, brothers from the Gentiles, greetings
    24: Since we have heard that some, going out from among us, have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, to whom we gave no commandment
    25: it pleased us, being assembled as one, to choose men and to send them to you, with our most beloved Barnabas and Paul
    26: men who have handed over their lives on behalf of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ
    27: Therefore, we have sent Judas and Silas, who themselves also will, with the spoken word, reaffirm to you the same things
    28: For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to impose no further burden upon you, other than these necessary things
    29: that you abstain from things immolated to idols, and from blood, and from what has been suffocated, and from fornication. You will do well to keep yourselves from these things. Farewell.
    30: And so, having been dismissed, they went down to Antioch. And gathering the multitude together, they delivered the epistle
    31: And when they had read it, they were gladdened by this consolation
    32: But Judas and Silas, being also prophets themselves, consoled the brothers with many words, and they were strengthened
    33: Then, after spending some more time there, they were dismissed with peace, by the brothers, to those who had sent them
    34: But it seemed good to Silas to remain there. So Judas alone departed to Jerusalem
    35: And Paul and Barnabas remained at Antioch, with many others, teaching and evangelizing the Word of the Lord
    36: Then, after some days, Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us return to visit the brothers throughout all the cities in which we have preached the Word of the Lord, to see how they are.
    37: And Barnabas wanted to take John, who was surnamed Mark, with them also
    38: But Paul was saying that he ought not to be received, since he withdrew from them at Pamphylia, and he had not gone with them in the work
    39: And there occurred a dissension, to such an extent that they departed from one another. And Barnabas, indeed taking Mark, sailed to Cyprus
    40: Yet truly, Paul, choosing Silas, set out, being delivered by the brothers to the grace of God
    41: And he traveled through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the Churches, instructing them to keep the precepts of the Apostles and the elders

  Chapter 16.

    1: Then he arrived at Derbe and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple named Timothy was there, the son of a faithful Jewish woman, his father a Gentile
    2: The brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium rendered good testimony to him
    3: Paul wanted this man to travel with him, and taking him, he circumcised him, because of the Jews who were in those places. For they all knew that his father was a Gentile
    4: And as they were traveling through the cities, they delivered to them the dogmas to be kept, which were decreed by the Apostles and elders who were at Jerusalem
    5: And certainly, the Churches were being strengthened in faith and were increasing in number every day
    6: Then, while crossing through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, they were prevented by the Holy Spirit from speaking the Word in Asia
    7: But when they had arrived in Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus would not permit them
    8: Then, when they had crossed through Mysia, they descended to Troas
    9: And a vision in the night was revealed to Paul of a certain man of Macedonia, standing and pleading with him, and saying: “Cross into Macedonia and help us!
    10: Then, after he saw the vision, immediately we sought to set out for Macedonia, having been assured that God had called us to evangelize to them
    11: And sailing from Troas, taking a direct path, we arrived at Samothrace, and on the following day, at Neapolis
    12: and from there to Philippi, which is the preeminent city in the area of Macedonia, a colony. Now we were in this city some days, conferring together
    13: Then, on the Sabbath day, we were walking outside the gate, beside a river, where there seemed to be a prayer gathering. And sitting down, we were speaking with the women who had assembled
    14: And a certain woman, named Lydia, a seller of purple in the city of Thyatira, a worshiper of God, listened. And the Lord opened her heart to be receptive to what Paul was saying
    15: And when she had been baptized, with her household, she pleaded with us, saying: “If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, enter into my house and lodge there.” And she convinced us
    16: Then it happened that, as we were going out to prayer, a certain girl, having a spirit of divination, met with us. She was a source of great profit to her masters, through her divining
    17: This girl, following Paul and us, was crying out, saying: “These men are servants of the Most High God! They are announcing to you the way of salvation!
    18: Now she behaved in this way for many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the spirit, “I command you, in the name of Jesus Christ, to go out from her.” And it went away in that same hour
    19: But her masters, seeing that the hope of their profit went away, apprehended Paul and Silas, and they brought them to the rulers at the courthouse
    20: And presenting them to the magistrates, they said: “These men are disturbing our city, since they are Jews
    21: And they are announcing a way which is not lawful for us to accept or to observe, since we are Romans.
    22: And the people rushed together against them. And the magistrates, tearing their tunics, ordered them to be beaten with staffs
    23: And when they had inflicted many scourges on them, they cast them into prison, instructing the guard to watch them diligently
    24: And since he had received this kind of order, he cast them into the interior prison cell, and he restricted their feet with stocks
    25: Then, in the middle of the night, Paul and Silas were praying and praising God. And those who were also in custody were listening to them
    26: Yet truly, there was a sudden earthquake, so great that the foundations of the prison were moved. And immediately all the doors were opened, and the bindings of everyone were released
    27: Then the prison guard, having been jarred awake, and seeing the doors of the prison open, drew his sword and intended to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had fled
    28: But Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying: “Do no harm to yourself, for we are all here!
    29: Then calling for a light, he entered. And trembling, he fell before the feet of Paul and Silas
    30: And bringing them outside, he said, “Sirs, what must I do, so that I may be saved?
    31: So they said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and then you will be saved, with your household.
    32: And they spoke the Word of the Lord to him, along with all those who were in his house
    33: And he, taking them in the same hour of the night, washed their scourges. And he was baptized, and next his entire household
    34: And when he had brought them into his own house, he set a table for them. And he was joyous, with his entire household, believing in God
    35: And when daylight had arrived, the magistrates sent the attendants, saying, “Release those men.
    36: But the prison guard reported these words to Paul: “The magistrates have sent to have you released. Now therefore, depart. Go in peace.
    37: But Paul said to them: “They have beaten us publicly, though we were not condemned. They have cast men who are Romans into prison. And now they would drive us away secretly? Not so. Instead, let them come forward
    38: and let us drive them away.” Then the attendants reported these words to the magistrates. And upon hearing that they were Romans, they were afraid
    39: And arriving, they pleaded with them, and leading them out, they begged them to depart from the city
    40: And they went away from the prison and entered into the house of Lydia. And having seen the brothers, they consoled them, and then they set out

End of day 310.