Day 15:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: After these things, Moses and Aaron entered, and they said to Pharaoh: “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: Release my people, so that they may sacrifice to me in the desert.
    2: But he responded: “Who is the Lord, that I should listen to his voice and release Israel? I do not know the Lord, and I will not release Israel.
    3: And they said: “The God of the Hebrews has called us, so that we may go three days’ journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the Lord our God. Otherwise, a pestilence or the sword may befall us.
    4: The king of Egypt said to them: “Why do you, Moses and Aaron, distract the people from their works? Go back to your burdens.
    5: And Pharaoh said: “The people of the land are many. You see that the turmoil has increased: how much more if you give them rest from the works?
    6: Therefore, on the same day, he instructed the overseers of the works, and the taskmasters of the people, saying
    7: “You shall no longer give chaff to the people to form bricks, as before. But they may go and gather straw
    8: And you shall impose upon them the same quota of bricks that they made before. Neither will you lessen anything, for they are idle, and therefore they cry out, saying: ‘We shall go and sacrifice to our God.
    9: They shall be oppressed with works, and these shall occupy them, so that they may not agree to lying words.
    10: And so the overseers of the works and the taskmasters went out and said to the people: “Thus says Pharaoh: I give you no chaff
    11: Go, and collect it wherever you are able to find it. Neither will anything of your work be diminished.
    12: And the people were dispersed through all the land of Egypt, in order to gather straw
    13: Likewise, the overseers of the works pressured them, saying: “Complete your work each day, just as you were accustomed to do before, when straw was given to you.
    14: And those who were first in the works of the sons of Israel were scourged by Pharaoh’s taskmasters, saying: “Why have you not filled the quota of bricks, neither yesterday, nor today, just as before?
    15: And the first among the sons of Israel came, and they cried out to Pharaoh, saying: “Why do act against your servants in this way
    16: Straw is not given to us, and yet the same amount of bricks is commanded. So we, your servants, are cut up by scourging, and injustice is done against your people.
    17: And he said: “You are idle. And for this reason you say, ‘We shall go and sacrifice to the Lord.
    18: Therefore, go and work. Straw will not be given to you, and you will return the customary number of bricks.
    19: And the first among the sons of Israel saw themselves in a crisis, because it was said to them, “Nothing at all will be lessened from the bricks throughout each day.
    20: And they met with Moses and Aaron, who stood opposite them as they departed from Pharaoh
    21: And they said to them: “May the Lord see and judge, because you have caused our odor to become foul before Pharaoh and his servants, and you have provided him with a sword, in order to kill us.
    22: And Moses returned to the Lord, and he said: “Lord, why have you afflicted this people? Why have you sent me
    23: For from the time that I entered to Pharaoh, so as to speak in your name, he has afflicted your people. And you have not freed them.

  Chapter 6.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: “Now you will see what I shall do to Pharaoh. For through a strong hand he will release them, and by a mighty hand he will cast them from his land.
    2: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: “I am the Lord
    3: who appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as Almighty God. And I did not reveal to them my name: ADONAI
    4: And I formed a covenant with them, in order to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojourning, in which they were newcomers
    5: I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, with which the Egyptians have oppressed them. And I have remembered my covenant
    6: For this reason, say to the sons of Israel: I am the Lord who will lead you away from the work house of the Egyptians, and rescue you from servitude, and also redeem you with an exalted arm and great judgments
    7: And I will take you to myself as my people, and I will be your God. And you will know that I am the Lord your God, who led you away from the work house of the Egyptians
    8: and who brought you into the land, over which I lifted up my hand in order to grant it to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And I will grant it to you as a possession. I am the Lord.
    9: And so, Moses explained all these things to the sons of Israel, who did not agree with him, because of their anguish of spirit and very difficult work
    10: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    11: “Enter and speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, so that he may release the sons of Israel from his land.
    12: Moses responded in the sight the Lord: “Behold, the sons of Israel do not listen to me. And how will Pharaoh listen to me, especially since I am of uncircumcised lips?
    13: And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and he gave them a commandment for the sons of Israel, and for Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, that they should lead the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt
    14: These are the leaders of the houses by their families. The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi
    15: These are the kindred of Reuben. The sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite women. These are the progeny of Simeon
    16: And these are the names of the sons of Levi by their kindred: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. Now the years of the life of Levi were one hundred and thirty-seven
    17: The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, by their kindred
    18: The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron and Uzziel. Likewise, the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred and thirty-three
    19: The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the kindred of Levi by their families
    20: Now Amram took as a wife Jochebed, his paternal aunt, who bore for him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were one hundred and thirty-seven
    21: Likewise, the sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri
    22: Likewise, the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri
    23: Now Aaron took as a wife Elizabeth, the daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nahshon, who bore for him Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar
    24: Likewise, the sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the kindred of the Korahites
    25: And truly Eleazar, the son of Aaron, took a wife from the daughters of Putiel. And she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the Levitical families by their kindred
    26: These are Aaron and Moses, whom the Lord instructed to lead the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt by their companies
    27: These are those who speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, in order to lead the sons of Israel out of Egypt. These are Moses and Aaron
    28: in the day when the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt
    29: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: “I am the Lord. Speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, all that I speak to you.
    30: And Moses said in the sight of the Lord: “Lo, I am of uncircumcised lips, how will Pharaoh listen to me?

  Chapter 7.

    1: And the Lord said to Moses: “Behold, I have appointed you as the god of Pharaoh. And Aaron, your brother, will be your prophet
    2: You will speak to him all that I command you. And he will speak to Pharaoh, so that he may release the sons of Israel from his land
    3: But I will harden his heart, and I will multiply my signs and wonders in the land of Egypt
    4: and he will not listen to you. And I will send my hand over Egypt, and I will lead my army and my people, the sons of Israel, from the land of Egypt, through very great judgments
    5: And the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord, who has extended my hand over Egypt, and who has led the sons of Israel from their midst.
    6: And so, Moses and Aaron did just as the Lord had instructed. And so it was done
    7: Now Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron eighty-three, when they spoke to Pharaoh
    8: And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron
    9: “When Pharaoh will say to you, ‘Show signs,’ you shall say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff, and cast it down before Pharaoh, and it will be turned into a snake.’ 
    10: And so Moses and Aaron entered to Pharaoh, and they did just as the Lord had commanded. And Aaron took the staff in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants, and it was turned into a snake
    11: Then Pharaoh called the wise men and the sorcerers. And they also, by Egyptian incantations and certain secrets, did similarly
    12: And each one cast down their staffs, and they were turned into serpents. But the staff of Aaron devoured their staffs
    13: And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had instructed
    14: Then the Lord said to Moses: “The heart of Pharaoh has been hardened; he is not willing to release the people
    15: Go to him in the morning; behold, he will go out to the waters. And you will stand to meet him above the bank of the river. And you will take, in your hand, the staff that was turned into a serpent
    16: And you will say to him: ‘The Lord God of the Hebrews sent me to you, saying: Release my people in order to sacrifice to me in the desert. And even until the present time, you were not willing to listen
    17: Therefore, thus says the Lord: In this you will know that I am the Lord. Behold, I will strike, with the staff that is in my hand, the water of the river, and it will be turned into blood
    18: Also, the fishes that are in the river will die, and the waters will be polluted, and the Egyptians will be afflicted when they drink the water of the river.’ 
    19: The Lord also said to Moses: “Say to Aaron: ‘Take your staff; and extend your hand over the waters of Egypt, and over their rivers and streams and marshes and all the pools of waters, so that they may be turned into blood. And let there be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, as much in vessels of wood as in those of stone.’ 
    20: And Moses and Aaron did just as the Lord had instructed. And lifting up the staff, he struck the water of the river in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants. And it was turned into blood
    21: And the fishes that were in the river died, and the river was polluted, and the Egyptians were not able to drink the water of the river, and there was blood throughout the entire land of Egypt
    22: And the sorcerers of the Egyptians, with their incantations, did similarly. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had instructed
    23: And he turned himself away, and he entered his house, neither did he apply his heart to this turn of events
    24: Then all the Egyptians dug along the borders of the river for water to drink. For they were not able to drink from the water of the river
    25: And seven days were completed, after the Lord struck the river

  Chapter 8.

    1: The Lord also said to Moses: “Enter to Pharaoh, and you will say to him: ‘Thus says the Lord: Release my people in order to sacrifice to me
    2: But if you are not willing to release them, behold, I will strike all your coasts with frogs
    3: And the river will seethe with frogs, which will go up and enter into your house, and your bedroom, and upon your bed, and into the houses of your servants and your people, and into your ovens, and into the remains of your foods
    4: And to you, and to your people, and to all your servants, the frogs will enter.’ 
    5: And the Lord said to Moses: “Say to Aaron: ‘Extend your hand over the rivers, and also over the streams and the marshes, and bring forth frogs over the land of Egypt.’ 
    6: And Aaron extended his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt
    7: Then the sorcerers also, by their incantations, did similarly, and they brought forth frogs upon the land of Egypt
    8: But Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and he said to them: “Pray to the Lord, so as to take away the frogs from me and from my people. And I will release the people, so as to sacrifice to the Lord.
    9: And Moses said to Pharaoh: “Appoint for me a time, when I should petition on behalf of you, and your servants, and your people, so that the frogs may be driven away from you, and from your house, and from your servants, and from your people, and so that they may remain only in the river.
    10: And he responded, “Tomorrow.” Then he said, “I will act according to your word, so that you may know that there is no one like the Lord our God
    11: And the frogs will withdraw from you, and from your house, and from your servants, and from your people. And they will remain only in the river.
    12: And Moses and Aaron departed from Pharaoh. And Moses cried out to the Lord on behalf of the promise that he had made to Pharaoh concerning the frogs
    13: And the Lord acted according to the word of Moses. And the frogs died out of the houses, and out of the villages, and out of the fields
    14: And they gathered them together into immense piles, and the land was polluted
    15: Then Pharaoh, seeing that relief had been provided, hardened his own heart, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had instructed
    16: And the Lord said to Moses: “Say to Aaron: ‘Extend your staff and strike the dust of the earth. And let there be stinging insects throughout the entire the land of Egypt.’ 
    17: And they did so. And Aaron extended his hand, holding the staff, and he struck the dust of the earth, and there came stinging insects upon men and upon beasts. All the dust of the earth was turned into stinging insects through all the land of Egypt
    18: And the sorcerers, with their incantations, did similarly, in order to bring forth stinging insects, but they were not able. And there were stinging insects, as much on men as on beasts
    19: And the sorcerers said to Pharaoh: “This is the finger of God.” And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord had instructed
    20: The Lord also said to Moses: “Arise at first light, and stand in the sight of Pharaoh, for he will go out to the waters. And you will say to him: ‘Thus says the Lord: Release my people to sacrifice to me
    21: But if you will not release them, behold, I will send upon you, and upon your servants, and upon your people, and into your houses, diverse kinds of flies. And the houses of the Egyptians will be filled with diverse kinds of flies, as well as the whole land in which they will be
    22: And in that day, I will cause a miracle in the land of Goshen, where my people are, so that flies will not be there. And you will know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth
    23: And I will set a division between my people and your people. Tomorrow this sign will be.’ 
    24: And the Lord did so. And there came very grievous flies into the houses of Pharaoh and of his servants, and into all the land of Egypt. And the land was polluted, in this way, by the flies
    25: And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and he said to them, “Go and sacrifice to your God in this land.
    26: And Moses said: “It cannot be so. For we will immolate the abominations of the Egyptians to the Lord our God. For if we slaughter those things which the Egyptians worship, in their presence, they will stone us
    27: We will sojourn three days’ journey into the wilderness. And we will sacrifice to the Lord our God, just as he has instructed us.
    28: And Pharaoh said: “I will release you in order to sacrifice to the Lord your God in the desert. Yet you may only go so far. Petition for me.
    29: And Moses said: “After departing from you, I will pray to the Lord. And the flies will withdraw from Pharaoh, and from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow. Yet do not be willing to deceive any longer, so that you would not release the people to sacrifice to the Lord.
    30: And Moses, departing from Pharaoh, prayed to the Lord
    31: And he acted according to his word. And he took away the flies from Pharaoh, and from his servants, and from his people. There was not even one left behind
    32: And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, so that, even at this turn, he would not release the people

End of day 15.