Day 137:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Unto the end. For her who pursues the inheritance. A Psalm of David
    2: O Lord, listen closely to my words. Understand my outcry
    3: Attend to the voice of my prayer, my King and my God
    4: For to you, I will pray. In the morning, Lord, you will hear my voice
    5: In the morning, I will stand before you, and I will see. For you are not a God who wills iniquity
    6: And the malicious will not dwell close to you, nor will the unjust endure before your eyes
    7: You hate all who work iniquity. You will destroy all who speak a lie. The bloody and deceitful man, the Lord will abominate
    8: But I am in the multitude of your mercy. I will enter your house. I will show adoration toward your holy temple, in your fear
    9: Lord, lead me in your justice. Because of my enemies, direct my way in your sight
    10: For there is no truth in their mouth: their heart is vain
    11: Their throat is an open sepulcher. They have acted deceitfully with their tongues. Judge them, O God. Let them fall by their own intentions: according to the multitude of their impiety, expel them. For they have provoked you, O Lord
    12: But let all those who hope in you rejoice. They will exult in eternity, and you will dwell in them. And all those who love your name will glory in you
    13: For you will bless the just. You have crowned us, O Lord, as if with a shield of your good will

  Chapter 6.

    1: In parts according to verses. A Psalm of David. For the octave
    2: O Lord, do not rebuke me in your fury, nor chastise me in your anger
    3: Have mercy on me, Lord, for I am weak. Heal me, Lord, for my bones have become disturbed
    4: and my soul has been very troubled. But as for you, Lord, when
    5: Turn to me, Lord, and rescue my soul. Save me because of your mercy
    6: For there is no one in death who would be mindful of you. And who will confess to you in Hell
    7: I have labored in my groaning. Every night, with my tears, I will wash my bed and drench my blanket
    8: My eye has been troubled by rage. I have grown old among all my enemies
    9: Scatter before me, all you who work iniquity, for the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping
    10: The Lord has heard my supplication. The Lord has accepted my prayer
    11: Let all my enemies be ashamed and together be greatly troubled. May they be converted and become ashamed very quickly

  Chapter 7.

    1: A Psalm of David, which he sang to the Lord because of the words of Cush, the son of Jemini
    2: O Lord, my God, in you I have hoped. Save me from all those who persecute me, and free me
    3: lest at any time, like a lion, he might seize my soul, while there is no one to redeem me, nor any who can save
    4: O Lord, my God, if there is iniquity in my hands, if I have done this
    5: if I have repaid those who rendered evils to me, may I deservedly fall away empty before my enemies
    6: let the enemy pursue my soul, and take hold of it, and trample my life into the earth, and drag down my glory into the dust
    7: Rise up, Lord, in your anger. And be exalted to the borders of my enemies. And rise up, O Lord my God, according to the precept that you commanded
    8: and a congregation of people will surround you. And, because of this, return on high
    9: The Lord judges the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my justice and according to my innocence within me
    10: The wickedness of sinners will be consumed, and you will direct the just: the examiner of hearts and temperaments is God
    11: Just is my help from the Lord, who saves the upright of heart
    12: God is a just judge, strong and patient. How could he be angry throughout every day
    13: Unless you will be converted, he will brandish his sword. He has extended his bow and made it ready
    14: And with it, he has prepared instruments of death. He has produced his arrows for those on fire
    15: Behold him who has given birth to injustice: he has conceived sorrow and has begotten iniquity
    16: He has opened a pit and enlarged it. And he has fallen into the hole that he made
    17: His sorrow will be turned upon his own head, and his iniquity will descend upon his highest point
    18: I will confess to the Lord according to his justice, and I will sing a psalm to the name of the Lord Most High

  Chapter 8.

    1: Unto the end. For the oil and wine presses. A Psalm of David
    2: O Lord, our Lord, how admirable is your name throughout all the earth! For your magnificence is elevated above the heavens
    3: Out of the mouths of babes and infants, you have perfected praise, because of your enemies, so that you may destroy the enemy and the revenger
    4: For I will behold your heavens, the works of your fingers: the moon and the stars, which you have founded
    5: What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you visit him
    6: You reduced him to a little less than the Angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor
    7: and you have set him over the works of your hands
    8: You have subjected all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and in addition: the beasts of the field
    9: the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, which pass through the paths of the sea
    10: O Lord, our Lord, how admirable is your name throughout all the earth

End of day 137.