Day 138:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Unto the end. For the secrets of the Son. A Psalm of David
    2: I will confess to you, Lord, with my whole heart. I will recount all your wonders
    3: I will rejoice and exult in you. I will sing a psalm to your name, O Most High
    4: For my enemy will be turned back. They will be weakened and perish before your face
    5: For you have accomplished my judgment and my cause. You have sat upon the throne that judges justice
    6: You have rebuked the Gentiles, and the impious one has perished. You have deleted their name in eternity and for all generations
    7: The spears of the enemy have failed in the end, and their cities, you have destroyed. Their memory has perished with a loud noise
    8: But the Lord remains in eternity. He has prepared his throne in judgment
    9: And he will judge the whole world in equity. He will judge the people in justice
    10: And the Lord has become a refuge for the poor, a helper in opportunity, in tribulation
    11: And may they hope in you, who know your name. For you have not abandoned those seeking you, Lord
    12: Sing a psalm to the Lord, who dwells in Zion. Announce his study among the Gentiles
    13: Because of those who yearned for their blood, he has remembered them. He has not forgotten the cry of the poor
    14: Have mercy on me, Lord. See my humiliation from my enemies
    15: You lift me up from the gates of death, so that I may announce all your praises at the gates of the daughter of Zion
    16: I will exult in your salvation. The Gentiles have become trapped in the ruin that they made. Their foot has been caught in the same snare that they themselves had hidden
    17: The Lord will be recognized when making judgments. The sinner has been caught in the works of his own hands
    18: The sinners will be turned into Hell: all the Gentiles who have forgotten God
    19: For the poor will not be forgotten in the end. The patience of the poor will not perish in the end
    20: Rise up, Lord: do not let man be strengthened. Let the Gentiles be judged in your sight
    21: O Lord, establish a lawgiver over them, so that the Gentiles may know that they are only men
    22: So then, why, O Lord, have you withdrawn far away? Why have you overlooked us in opportunity, in tribulation
    23: While the impious is arrogant, the poor is enflamed. They are held by the counsels that they devise
    24: For the sinner is praised by the desires of his soul, and the iniquitous is blessed
    25: The sinner has provoked the Lord; according to the multitude of his wrath, he will not seek him
    26: God is not before his sight. His ways are stained at all times. Your judgments are removed from his face. He will be master of all his enemies
    27: For he has said in his heart, “I will not be disturbed: from generation to generation without evil.
    28: His mouth is full of curses, and bitterness, and deceit. Under his tongue are hardship and sorrow
    29: He sits in ambush, with resources in hidden places, so that he may execute the innocent
    30: His eyes catch sight of the poor. He lies in ambush, in hiding like a lion in his den. He lies in ambush, so that he may seize the poor, to seize the poor as he draws him in
    31: With his snare, he will bring him down. He will crouch down and pounce, when he has power over the poor
    32: For he has said in his heart, “God has forgotten, he has turned away his face, lest he see to the end.
    33: O Lord God, rise up. Let your hand be exalted. Do not forget the poor
    34: How has the impious one provoked God? For he has said in his heart, “He will not inquire.
    35: You do see, for you examine hardship and sorrow, so that you may deliver them into your hands. The poor one has been abandoned to you. You will be a helper to the orphan
    36: Break the arm of the sinner and the malicious. His sin will be sought, and it will not be found
    37: The Lord shall reign in eternity, even forever and ever. You will perish the Gentiles from his land
    38: The Lord has heeded the desire of the poor. Your ear has listened to the preparation of their heart
    39: so as to judge for the orphan and the humble, so that man may no longer presume to magnify himself upon the earth

  Chapter 10.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: I trust in the Lord. How can you say to my soul, “Sojourn to the mountain, like a sparrow.
    3: For behold, the sinners have bent their bow. They have prepared their arrows in the quiver, so as to shoot arrows in the dark at the upright of heart
    4: For they have destroyed the things that you have completed. But what has the just one done
    5: The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord’s throne is in heaven. His eyes look upon the poor. His eyelids question the sons of men
    6: The Lord questions the just and the impious. Yet he who loves iniquity, hates his own soul
    7: He will rain down snares upon sinners. Fire and brimstone and windstorms will be the portion of their cup
    8: For the Lord is just, and he has chosen justice. His countenance has beheld equity

  Chapter 11.

    1: Unto the end. For the octave. A Psalm of David
    2: Save me, O Lord, because holiness has passed away, because truths have been diminished, before the sons of men
    3: They have been speaking emptiness, each one to his neighbor; they have been speaking with deceitful lips and a duplicitous heart
    4: May the Lord scatter all deceitful lips, along with the tongue that speaks malice
    5: They have said: “We will magnify our tongue; our lips belong to us. What is Lord to us?
    6: Because of the misery of the destitute and the groaning of the poor, now I will arise, says the Lord. I will place him in safety. I will act faithfully toward him
    7: The eloquence of the Lord is pure eloquence, silver tested by fire, purged from the earth, refined seven times
    8: You, O Lord, will preserve us, and you will guard us from this generation into eternity
    9: The impious wander aimlessly. According to your loftiness, you have multiplied the sons of men

  Chapter 12.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David. How long, O Lord? Will you forget me until the end? How long will you turn your face away from me
    2: How long can I take counsel in my soul, sorrowing in my heart throughout the day
    3: How long will my enemy be exalted over me
    4: Look upon me and listen to me, O Lord my God. Enlighten my eyes, lest I fall asleep forever in death
    5: lest at any time my enemy may say, “I have prevailed against him.” Those who trouble me will exult, if I have been disturbed
    6: But I have hoped in your mercy. My heart will exult in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, who assigns good things to me. And I will sing psalms to the name of the Lord Most High

End of day 138.