Day 235:

Reading Lamentations, chapters ['P', '1', '2', '3']:

  Chapter P.

    1: And it happened that, after Israel was driven into captivity, and Jerusalem was deserted,
    2: the prophet Jeremiah sat weeping, and he wailed this lamentation in Jerusalem
    3: And sighing with a bitter soul, and mourning, he said

  Chapter 1.

    1: ALEPH. O how a city once filled with people now sits alone! The Governess of the Gentiles has become like a widow. The Prince of the provinces has been placed under tribute
    2: BETH. Weeping, she has wept through the night, and her tears are on her cheeks. There is no one to be a comfort to her and to all her beloved. All her friends have spurned her, and they have become her enemies
    3: GHIMEL. Judah has migrated because of affliction and great servitude. She has lived among the nations and not found rest. All of her persecutors have apprehended her, amid torments
    4: DALETH. The pathways of Zion mourn, because there are none who approach for the solemnity. All her gates are destroyed. Her priests groan. Her virgins are filthy. And she is overwhelmed with bitterness
    5: HE. Her enemies have been made her leaders; her adversaries have been enriched. For the Lord has spoken against her, because of the multitude of her iniquities. Her little ones have been led into captivity before the face of the tribulator
    6: VAU. And all her elegance has departed, from the daughter of Zion. Her leaders have become like rams that cannot find pasture, and they have gone away without strength before the face of the pursuer
    7: ZAIN. Jerusalem has remembered the days of her affliction and the betrayal of all her desirable ones, whom she held from the days of antiquity, when her people fell into the hand of the enemy, and there was no one to be a helper. The enemies have looked upon her and mocked her Sabbaths
    8: HETH. Jerusalem has sinned a grievous sin. Because of this, she has become unstable. All who glorified her have spurned her, because they have looked upon her disgrace. Then she groaned and turned away again
    9: TETH. Her filth is on her feet, and her end has not been remembered. She has been vehemently put down, having no consolation. O Lord, look upon my affliction, for the adversary has been lifted up
    10: JOD. The enemy has sent his hand against all her desirable ones. For she has watched the Gentiles enter her sanctuary, even though you instructed that they should not enter into your church
    11: CAPH. All her people are groaning and seeking bread. They have given up whatever was precious in exchange for food, so as to remain alive. See, O Lord, and consider, for I have become vile
    12: LAMED. O all you who pass by the way, attend, and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow. For he has made me a vintage, just as the Lord has spoken in the day of his furious anger
    13: MEM. From on high, he has sent fire into my bones, and he has educated me. He has spread a net for my feet; he has turned me back. He has placed me in desolation, consumed by grief, all day long
    14: NUN. Vigilant is the yoke of my iniquities. They have been folded together in his hand and imposed on my neck. My virtue has been weakened. The Lord has given me into a hand, out of which I am not able to rise
    15: SAMECH. The Lord has taken away all of my great ones from my midst. He has called forth time against me, so as to crush my elect ones. The Lord has trampled the winepress, which was for the virgin daughter of Judah
    16: AIN. For this I weep, and my eyes bring forth water. For the consoler has been far away from me, changing my soul. My sons have become lost, because the enemy has prevailed
    17: PHE. Zion has reached out her hands; there is no one to console her. The Lord has given orders against Jacob; his enemies are all around him. Jerusalem among them is like a woman made unclean by menstruation
    18: SADE. The Lord is just, for it is I who has provoked his mouth to wrath. I beg all people to listen and to see my sorrow. My virgins and my youths have gone into captivity
    19: COPH. I called for my friends, but they deceived me. My priests and my elders have been consumed in the city. For they were seeking their food, so as to revive their life
    20: RES. See, O Lord, that I am in tribulation. My bowels have been disturbed, my heart has been subverted within me, for I am filled with bitterness. Outside, the sword puts to death, and at home there is a similar death
    21: SIN. They have heard that I groan and that there is no one to console me. All my enemies have heard of my misfortune; they have rejoiced that you caused it. You have brought in a day of consolation, and so they shall become like me
    22: THAU. Let all their evil enter before you. And make vintage of them, just as you made vintage of me, because of all my iniquities. For my sighs are many, and my heart is grieving

  Chapter 2.

    1: ALEPH. O how the Lord has covered the daughter of Zion with gloom in his fury! O how he has thrown down from heaven to earth the famous one of Israel, and he has not remembered his footstool in the day of his fury
    2: BETH. The Lord has cast down, and he has not been lenient, with all the beauties of Jacob. In his fury, he has destroyed the fortifications of the virgin of Judah, and he has thrown them down to the ground. He has polluted the kingdom and its leaders
    3: GHIMEL. In the anger of his fury, he has broken the entire horn of Israel. He has drawn back his right hand before the face of the enemy. And he has kindled within Jacob a flaming fire, devouring all around
    4: DALETH. He has bent his bow like an enemy. He has fixed his right hand like an adversary. And he has cut down all that was beautiful to behold in the tabernacle of the daughter of Zion. He has poured out his indignation like fire
    5: HE. The Lord has become like an enemy. He has thrown down Israel. He has thrown down all of his defenses. He has torn apart his fortifications. And he has filled the daughter of Judah with humbled men and humbled women
    6: VAU. And he has torn apart her tent like a garden. He has demolished her tabernacle. In Zion, the Lord has delivered feast and Sabbath into oblivion, and king and priest into disgrace, and into the indignation of his fury
    7: ZAIN. The Lord has pushed away his own altar. He has cursed his own sanctuary. He has delivered the walls of its towers into the hand of the enemy. They have made a noise in the house of the Lord, as if on the day of a solemnity
    8: HETH. The Lord has decided to tear down the wall of the daughter of Zion. He has stretched out his measuring line, and he has not turned away his hand from perdition. And the rampart has mourned, and with the wall it has been torn apart
    9: TETH. Her gates have been buried in the ground. He has ruined and crushed its bars. Her king and her princes are with the Gentiles. There is no law, and her prophets have found no vision from the Lord
    10: JOD. The elders of the daughter of Zion have become idle; they sit on the ground. They have sprinkled their heads with ashes. They have been wrapped with haircloth. The virgins of Jerusalem have cast their heads down to the ground
    11: CAPH. My eyes have exhausted their tears. My internal organs have become disturbed. My liver has been poured out on the earth, over the grief of the daughter of my people, when the little ones and the infants passed away in the streets of the town
    12: LAMED. They said to their mothers, “Where is the wheat and the wine?” when they fell like the wounded in the streets of the city, when they breathed out their lives into the bosoms of their mothers
    13: MEM. To what shall I compare you, or to what shall I liken you, O daughter of Jerusalem? To what shall I equate you, so as to console you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your destruction is as great as the sea. Who will cure you
    14: NUN. Your prophets have seen false and foolish things for you. And they have not laid open your iniquity, so as to provoke you to repentance. Yet they have seen for you false revelations and banishments
    15: SAMECH. All those who passed by the way have clapped their hands over you. They have hissed and shook their heads over the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, “Is this the city of perfect dignity, the joy of all the earth?
    16: PHE. All your enemies have opened their mouth over you. They have hissed and gnashed their teeth, and they said: “We will devour her. Yes, this is the day we waited for. We have found it, we have seen it.
    17: AIN. The Lord has done what he decided to do. He has fulfilled his word, which he instructed since the days of antiquity. He has destroyed, and he has not been lenient, and he has caused the enemy to rejoice over you, and he has exalted the horn of your adversaries
    18: SADE. Their heart cried out to the Lord from the walls of the daughter of Zion. Let tears run down like a torrent throughout the day and the night. Do not give rest to yourself, and do not allow the pupil of your eye to cease
    19: COPH. Rise up. Give praise in the night, in the first of the watches. Pour out your heart like water before the sight of the Lord. Lift up your hands to him on behalf of the souls of your little ones, who have passed away from famine at the head of all the crossroads
    20: RES. O Lord, see and consider those whom you have made into a such vintage. So then, shall women eat their own fruit, little ones measured by the palm of the hand? Shall priest and prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord
    21: SIN. The boy and the old man lie down on the ground outside. My virgins and my youths have fallen by the sword. You have slain them in the day of your fury. You have struck down, and you have not shown pity
    22: THAU. You have called, as if to a day of solemnity, those who would terrify me all around. And there was no one, in the day of the fury of the Lord, who escaped or was left behind. Those whom I educated and nourished, my enemy has consumed

  Chapter 3.

    1: ALEPH. I am a man watching my own poverty by the rod of his indignation
    2: ALEPH. He has driven me and led me into darkness, and not into light
    3: ALEPH. Against me only, he has turned and turned again his hand, all day long
    4: BETH. My skin and my flesh, he has made old; he has crushed my bones
    5: BETH. He has built all around me, and he has encircled me with gall and hardship
    6: BETH. He has gathered me into darkness, like those who are forever dead
    7: GHIMEL. He has built against me all around, so that I may not depart. He has increased the burden of my confinement
    8: GHIMEL. Yet even when I cry out and beg, he excludes my prayer
    9: GHIMEL. He has enclosed my ways with square stones; he has subverted my paths
    10: DALETH. He has become to me like a bear lying in ambush, like a lion in hiding
    11: DALETH. He has subverted my paths, and he has broken me. He has placed me in desolation
    12: DALETH. He has bent his bow, and he has positioned me like a target for his arrows
    13: HE. He has shot into my kidneys the daughters of his quiver
    14: HE. I have become a derision to all my people, their song throughout the day
    15: HE. He has filled me with bitterness; he has inebriated me with wormwood
    16: VAU. And he has broken each one of my teeth; he has fed me with ashes
    17: VAU. And my soul has been driven away from peace; I have forgotten what is good
    18: VAU. And I said, “My end and my hope from the Lord has perished.
    19: ZAIN. Remember my poverty and my transgression, the wormwood and the gall
    20: ZAIN. I will call to mind the past, and my soul shall languish within me
    21: ZAIN. These recollections are in my heart; therefore, I shall hope
    22: HETH. By the mercies of the Lord, we are not consumed. For his compassion has not passed away
    23: HETH. I know it at first light; great is your faithfulness
    24: HETH. “The Lord is my portion,” said my soul. Because of this, I will wait for him
    25: TETH. The Lord is good to those who hope in him, to the soul that seeks him
    26: TETH. It is good to stand ready in silence for the salvation of God
    27: TETH. It is good for a man, when he has carried the yoke from his youth
    28: JOD. He shall sit solitary and silent. For he has lifted it upon himself
    29: JOD. He shall place his mouth in the dirt, if perhaps there may be hope
    30: JOD. He shall give his cheek to those who strike him; he shall be saturated with reproaches
    31: CAPH. For the Lord will not rebuke forever
    32: CAPH. For, if he has cast down, he will also have compassion, according to the multitude of his mercies
    33: CAPH. For he has not humiliated from his heart, nor has he thrown aside the sons of men
    34: LAMED. as if to crush under his feet all the prisoners of the land
    35: LAMED. as if to turn aside the judgment of a man in the sight of the presence of the Most High
    36: LAMED. as if to pervert a man in his judgment: the Lord does not do this
    37: MEM. Who is this, who said to do what the Lord did not command
    38: MEM. Does not both misfortune and good proceed from the mouth of the Most High
    39: MEM. Why has a living man murmured, a man suffering for his sins
    40: NUN. Let us examine our ways, and seek out, and return to the Lord
    41: NUN. Let us lift up our hearts, with our hands, toward the Lord in the heavens
    42: NUN. We have acted sinfully, and we have provoked to wrath. About this, you are relentless
    43: SAMECH. You have covered us in your fury, and you have struck us. You have killed, and have not spared
    44: SAMECH. You have set a cloud opposite you, lest our prayer pass through
    45: SAMECH. In the midst of the peoples, you have uprooted me and cast me out
    46: PHE. All our enemies have opened their mouths over us
    47: PHE. Prediction has become for us a dread, and a snare, and a grief
    48: PHE. My eye has brought forth streams of water at the contrition of the daughter of my people
    49: AIN. My eye has been afflicted, and it has not been quieted, because there would be no res
    50: AIN. until the Lord looked down and saw from the heavens
    51: AIN. My eye has exhausted my soul over every one of the daughters of my city
    52: SADE. My enemies have chased me, and they have caught me like a bird, without reason
    53: SADE. My life has fallen into a pit, and they have placed a stone over me
    54: SADE. The waters have flooded over my head. I said, “I am lost.
    55: COPH. I called upon your name, O Lord, from the furthest pit
    56: COPH. You have heard my voice. Do not turn away your ear from my sobbing and my cries
    57: COPH. You drew near in the daytime, when I called upon you. You said, “Fear not.
    58: RES. You have judged, O Lord, the case of my soul. You are the Redeemer of my life
    59: RES. You have seen, O Lord, their iniquity against me. Judge my case
    60: RES. You have seen all their fury, every one of their thoughts is against me
    61: SIN. You have heard their reproach, O Lord, all their thoughts are against me
    62: SIN. The lips of those who rise up against me, and their meditations, are against me all day long
    63: SIN. Watch their sitting down and their rising up: I am their psalm
    64: THAU. You shall pay a recompense to them, O Lord, according to the works of their hands
    65: THAU. You shall give them a heavy shield of the heart: your hardship
    66: THAU. You shall pursue them in fury, and you shall destroy them under the heavens, O Lord

End of day 235.