Day 300:

Reading Luke, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And looking around, he saw the wealthy putting their donations into the offertory
    2: Then he also saw a certain widow, a pauper, putting in two small brass coins
    3: And he said: “Truly, I say to you, that this poor widow has put in more than all the others
    4: For all these, out of their abundance, have added to the gifts for God. But she, out of what she needed, has put in all that she had to live on.
    5: And when some of them were saying, about the temple, that it was adorned with excellent stones and gifts, he said
    6: “These things that you see, the days will arrive when there will not be left behind stone upon stone, which is not thrown down.
    7: Then they questioned him, saying: “Teacher, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things will happen?
    8: And he said: “Be cautious, lest you be seduced. For many will come in my name, saying: ‘For I am he,’ and, ‘The time has drawn near.’ And so, do not choose to go after them
    9: And when you will have heard of battles and seditions, do not be terrified. These things must happen first. But the end is not so soon.
    10: Then he said to them: “People will rise up against people, and kingdom against kingdom
    11: And there will be great earthquakes in various places, and pestilences, and famines, and terrors from heaven; and there will be great signs
    12: But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, handing you over to synagogues and into custody, dragging you before kings and governors, because of my name
    13: And this will be an opportunity for you to give testimony
    14: Therefore, set this in your hearts: that you should not consider in advance how you might respond
    15: For I will give to you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries will not be able to resist or contradict
    16: And you will be handed over by your parents, and brothers, and relatives, and friends. And they will bring about the death of some of you
    17: And you will be hated by all because of my name
    18: And yet, not a hair of your head will perish
    19: By your patience, you shall possess your souls
    20: Then, when you will have seen Jerusalem encircled by an army, know then that its desolation has drawn near
    21: Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and those who are in its midst withdraw, and those who are in the countryside not enter into it
    22: For these are the days of retribution, so that all things may be fulfilled, which have been written
    23: Then woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days. For there will be great distress upon the land and great wrath upon this people
    24: And they will fall by the edge of the sword. And they will be led away as captives into all nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles, until the times of the nations are fulfilled
    25: And there will be signs in the sun and the moon and the stars. And there will  be, on earth, distress among the Gentiles, out of confusion at the roaring of the sea and of the waves
    26: men withering away out of fear and out of apprehension over the things that will overwhelm the whole world. For the powers of the heavens will be moved
    27: And then they will see the Son of man coming on a cloud, with great power and majesty
    28: But when these things begin to happen, lift up your heads and look around you, because your redemption draws near.
    29: And he told them a comparison: “Take notice of the fig tree and of all the trees
    30: When presently they produce fruit from themselves, you know that summer is near
    31: So you also, when you will have seen these things happen, know that the kingdom of God is near
    32: Amen I say to you, this lineage shall not pass away, until all these things happen
    33: Heaven and earth shall pass away. But my words shall not pass away
    34: But be attentive to yourselves, lest perhaps your hearts may be weighed down by self-indulgence and inebriation and the cares of this life. And then that day may overwhelm you suddenly
    35: For like a snare it will overwhelm all those who sit upon the face of the entire earth
    36: And so, be vigilant, praying at all times, so that you may be held worthy to escape from all these things, which are in the future, and to stand before the Son of man.
    37: Now in the daytime, he was teaching in the temple. But truly, departing in the evening, he lodged on the mount that is called Olivet
    38: And all the people arrived in the morning to listen to him in the temple

  Chapter 22.

    1: Now the days of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called Passover, were approaching
    2: And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, were seeking a way to execute Jesus. Yet truly, they were afraid of the people
    3: Then Satan entered into Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, one of the twelve
    4: And he went out and was speaking with the leaders of the priests, and the magistrates, as to how he might hand him over to them
    5: And they were glad, and so they made an agreement to give him money
    6: And he made a promise. And he was seeking an opportunity to hand him over, apart from the crowds
    7: Then the day of Unleavened Bread arrived, on which it was necessary to kill the Pascal lamb
    8: And he sent Peter and John, saying, “Go out, and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat.
    9: But they said, “Where do you want us to prepare it?
    10: And he said to them: “Behold, as you are entering into the city, a certain man will meet you, carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him to the house into which he enters
    11: And you shall say to the father of the household: ‘The Teacher says to you: Where is the guestroom, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
    12: And he will show you a large cenacle, fully furnished. And so, prepare it there.
    13: And going out, they found it to be just as he had told them. And they prepared the Passover
    14: And when the hour had arrived, he sat down at table, and the twelve Apostles with him
    15: And he said to them: “With longing have I desired to eat this Passover with you, before I suffer
    16: For I say to you, that from this time, I will not eat it, until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
    17: And having taken the chalice, he gave thanks, and he said: “Take this and share it among yourselves
    18: For I say to you, that I will not drink from the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God arrives.
    19: And taking bread, he gave thanks and broke it and gave it to them, saying: “This is my body, which is given for you. Do this as a commemoration of me.
    20: Similarly also, he took the chalice, after he had eaten the meal, saying: “This chalice is the new covenant in my blood, which will be shed for you
    21: But in truth, behold, the hand of my betrayer is with me at table
    22: And indeed, the Son of man goes according to what has been determined. And yet, woe to that man by whom he will be betrayed.
    23: And they began to inquire among themselves, as to which of them might do this
    24: Now there was also a contention among them, as to which of them seemed to be the greater
    25: And he said to them: “The kings of the Gentiles dominate them; and those who hold authority over them are called beneficent
    26: But it must not be so with you. Instead, whoever is greater among you, let him become the lesser. And whoever is the leader, let him become the server
    27: For who is greater: he who sits at table, or he who serves? Is not he who sits at table? Yet I am in your midst as one who serves
    28: But you are those who have remained with me during my trials
    29: And I dispose to you, just as my Father has disposed to me, a kingdom
    30: so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and so that you may sit upon thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
    31: And the Lord said: “Simon, Simon! Behold, Satan has asked for you, so that he may sift you like wheat
    32: But I have prayed for you, so that your faith may not fail, and so that you, once converted, may confirm your brothers.
    33: And he said to him, “Lord, I am prepared to go with you, even to prison and to death.
    34: And he said, “I say to you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day, until you have three times denied that you know me.” And he said to them
    35: “When I sent you without money or provisions or shoes, did you lack anything?
    36: And they said, “Nothing.” Then he said to them: “But now, let whoever has money take it, and likewise with provisions. And whoever does not have these, let him sell his coat and buy a sword
    37: For I say to you, that what has been written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘And he was esteemed with the wicked.’ Yet even these things about me have an end.
    38: So they said, “Lord, behold, there are two swords here.” But he said to them, “It is sufficient.
    39: And departing, he went out, according to his custom, to the Mount of Olives. And his disciples also followed him
    40: And when he had arrived at the place, he said to them: “Pray, lest you enter into temptation.
    41: And he was separated from them by about a stone’s throw. And kneeling down, he prayed
    42: saying: “Father, if you are willing, take this chalice away from me. Yet truly, let not my will, but yours, be done.
    43: Then an Angel appeared to him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in agony, he prayed more intensely
    44: and so his sweat became like drops of blood, running down to the ground
    45: And when he had risen up from prayer and had gone to his disciples, he found them sleeping out of sorrow
    46: And he said to them: “Why are you sleeping? Rise up, pray, lest you enter into temptation.
    47: While he was still speaking, behold, a crowd arrived. And he who is called Judas, one of the twelve, went ahead of them and approached Jesus, in order to kiss him
    48: And Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you betray the Son of man with a kiss?
    49: Then those who were around him, realizing what was about to happen, said to him: “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?
    50: And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear
    51: But in response, Jesus said, “Permit even this.” And when he had touched his ear, he healed him
    52: Then Jesus said to the leaders of the priests, and the magistrates of the temple, and the elders, who had come to him: “Have you gone out, as if against a thief, with swords and clubs
    53: When I was with you each day in the temple, you did not extend your hands against me. But this is your hour and that of the power of darkness.
    54: And apprehending him, they led him to the house of the high priest. Yet truly, Peter followed at a distance
    55: Now as they were sitting around a fire, which had been kindled in the middle of the atrium, Peter was in their midst
    56: And when a certain woman servant had seen him sitting in its light, and had looked at him intently, she said, “This one was also with him.
    57: But he denied him by saying, “Woman, I do not know him.
    58: And after a little while, another one, seeing him, said, “You also are one of them.” Yet Peter said, “O man, I am not.
    59: And after the interval of about one hour had passed, someone else affirmed it, saying: “Truly, this one also was with him. For he is also a Galilean.
    60: And Peter said: “Man, I do not know what you are saying.” And at once, while he was still speaking, the rooster crowed
    61: And the Lord turned around and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord that he had said: “For before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.
    62: And going out, Peter wept bitterly
    63: And the men who were holding him ridiculed him and beat him
    64: And they blindfolded him and repeatedly struck his face. And they questioned him, saying: “Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?
    65: And blaspheming in many other ways, they spoke against him
    66: And when it was daytime, the elders of the people, and the leaders of the priests, and the scribes convened. And they led him into their council, saying, “If you are the Christ, tell us.
    67: And he said to them: “If I tell you, you will not believe me
    68: And if I also question you, you will not answer me. Neither will you release me
    69: But from this time, the Son of man will be sitting at the right hand of the power of God.
    70: Then they all said, “So you are the Son of God?” And he said. “You are saying that I am.
    71: And they said: “Why do we still require testimony? For we have heard it ourselves, from his own mouth.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And the entire multitude of them, rising up, led him to Pilate
    2: Then they began to accuse him, saying, “We found this one subverting our nation, and prohibiting giving tribute to Caesar, and saying that he is Christ the king.
    3: And Pilate questioned him, saying: “You are the king of the Jews?” But in response, he said: “You are saying it.
    4: Then Pilate said to the leaders of the priests and to the crowds, “I find no case against this man.
    5: But they continued more intensely, saying: “He has stirred up the people, teaching throughout all of Judea, beginning from Galilee, even to this place.
    6: But Pilate, upon hearing Galilee, asked if the man were of Galilee
    7: And when he realized that he was under Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him away to Herod, who was himself also at Jerusalem in those days
    8: Then Herod, upon seeing Jesus, was very glad. For he had been wanting to see him for a long time, because he had heard so many things about him, and he was hoping to see some kind of sign wrought by him
    9: Then he questioned him with many words. But he gave him no response at all
    10: And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, stood firm in persistently accusing him
    11: Then Herod, with his soldiers, scorned him. And he ridiculed him, clothing him in a white garment. And he sent him back to Pilate
    12: And Herod and Pilate became friends on that day. For previously they were enemies to one another
    13: And Pilate, calling together the leaders of the priests, and the magistrates, and the people
    14: said to them: “You have brought before me this man, as one who disturbs the people. And behold, having questioned him before you, I find no case against this man, in those things about which you accuse him
    15: And neither did Herod. For I sent you all to him, and behold, nothing deserving of death was recorded about him
    16: Therefore, I will chastise him and release him.
    17: Now he was required to release one person for them on the feast day
    18: But the entire crowd exclaimed together, saying: “Take this one, and release to us Barabbas!
    19: Now he had been cast into prison because of a certain sedition that occurred in the city and for murder
    20: Then Pilate spoke to them again, wanting to release Jesus
    21: But they shouted in response, saying: “Crucify him! Crucify him!
    22: Then he said to them a third time: “Why? What evil has he done? I find no case against him for death. Therefore, I will chastise him and release him.
    23: But they persisted, with loud voices, in demanding that he be crucified. And their voices increased in intensity
    24: And so Pilate issued a judgment granting their petition
    25: Then he released for them the one who had been cast into prison for murder and sedition, whom they were requesting. Yet truly, Jesus he handed over to their will
    26: And as they were leading him away, they apprehended a certain one, Simon of Cyrene, as he was returning from the countryside. And they imposed the cross on him to carry after Jesus
    27: Then a great crowd of people followed him, with women who were mourning and lamenting him
    28: But Jesus, turning to them, said: “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep over me. Instead, weep over yourselves and over your children
    29: For behold, the days will arrive in which they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that have not borne, and the breasts that have not nursed.
    30: Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall over us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.
    31: For if they do these things with green wood, what will be done with the dry?
    32: Now they also led out two other criminals with him, in order to execute them
    33: And when they arrived at the place that is called Calvary, they crucified him there, with the robbers, one to the right and the other to the left
    34: Then Jesus said, “Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do.” And truly, dividing his garments, they cast lots
    35: And people were standing near, watching. And the leaders among them derided him, saying: “He saved others. Let him save himself, if this one is the Christ, the elect of God.
    36: And the soldiers also ridiculed him, approaching him and offering him vinegar
    37: and saying, “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself.
    38: Now there was also an inscription written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS
    39: And one of those robbers who were hanging blasphemed him, saying, “If you are the Christ, save yourself and us.
    40: But the other responded by rebuking him, saying: “Do you have no fear of God, since you are under the same condemnation
    41: And indeed, it is just for us. For we are receiving what our deeds deserve. But truly, this one has done nothing wrong.
    42: And he said to Jesus, “Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom.
    43: And Jesus said to him, “Amen I say to you, this day you shall be with me in Paradise.
    44: Now it was nearly the sixth hour, and a darkness occurred over the entire earth, until the ninth hour
    45: And the sun was obscured. And the veil of the temple was torn down the middle
    46: And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said: “Father, into your hands I commend my spirit.” And upon saying this, he expired
    47: Now, the centurion, seeing what had happened, glorified God, saying, “Truly, this man was the Just One.
    48: And the entire crowd of those who came together to see this spectacle also saw what had happened, and they returned, striking their breasts
    49: Now all those who knew him, and the women who had followed him from Galilee, were standing at a distance, watching these things
    50: And behold, there was a man named Joseph, who was a councilman, a good and just man
    51: (for he had not consented to their decision or their actions). He was from Arimathea, a city of Judea. And he was himself also anticipating the kingdom of God
    52: This man approached Pilate and petitioned for the body of Jesus
    53: And taking him down, he wrapped him in a fine linen cloth, and he placed him in a tomb hewn from rock, in which no one had ever been placed
    54: And it was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was drawing near
    55: Now the women who had come with him from Galilee, by following, saw the tomb and the manner in which his body was placed
    56: And upon returning, they prepared aromatic spices and ointments. But on the Sabbath, indeed, they rested, according to the commandment

  Chapter 24.

    1: Then, on the first Sabbath, at very first light, they went to the tomb, carrying the aromatic spices that they had prepared
    2: And they found the stone rolled back from the tomb
    3: And upon entering, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus
    4: And it happened that, while their minds were still confused about this, behold, two men stood beside them, in shining apparel
    5: Then, since they were afraid and were turning their faces toward the ground, these two said to them: “Why do you seek the living with the dead
    6: He is not here, for he has risen. Recall how he spoke to you, when he was still in Galilee
    7: saying: ‘For the Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.’ 
    8: And they called to mind his words
    9: And returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven, and to all the others
    10: Now it was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary of James, and the other women who were with them, who told these things to the Apostles
    11: But these words seemed to them a delusion. And so they did not believe them
    12: But Peter, rising up, ran to the tomb. And stooping down, he saw the linen cloths positioned alone, and he went away wondering to himself about what had happened
    13: And behold, two of them went out, on the same day, to a town named Emmaus, which was the distance of sixty stadia from Jerusalem
    14: And they spoke to one another about all of these things that had occurred
    15: And it happened that, while they were speculating and questioning within themselves, Jesus himself, drawing near, traveled with them
    16: But their eyes were restrained, so that they would not recognize him
    17: And he said to them, “What are these words, which you are discussing with one another, as you walk and are sad?
    18: And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, responded by saying to him, “Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?
    19: And he said to them, “What things?” And they said, “About Jesus of Nazareth, who was a noble prophet, powerful in works and in words, before God and all the people
    20: And how our high priests and leaders handed him over to be condemned to death. And they crucified him
    21: But we were hoping that he would be the Redeemer of Israel. And now, on top of all this, today is the third day since these things have happened
    22: Then, too, certain women from among us terrified us. For before daytime, they were at the tomb
    23: and, having not found his body, they returned, saying that they had even seen a vision of Angels, who said that he is alive
    24: And some of us went out to the tomb. And they found it just as the women had said. But truly, they did not find him.
    25: And he said to them: “How foolish and reluctant in heart you are, to believe everything that has been spoken by the Prophets
    26: Was not the Christ required to suffer these things, and so enter into his glory?
    27: And beginning from Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted for them, in all the Scriptures, the things that were about him
    28: And they drew near to the town where they were going. And he conducted himself so as to go on further
    29: But they were insistent with him, saying, “Remain with us, because it is toward evening and now daylight is declining.” And so he entered with them
    30: And it happened that, while he was at table with them, he took bread, and he blessed and broke it, and he extended it to them
    31: And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from their eyes
    32: And they said to one another, “Was not our heart burning within us, while he was speaking on the way, and when he opened the Scriptures to us?
    33: And rising up at that same hour, they returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven gathered together, and those who were with them
    34: saying: “In truth, the Lord has risen, and he has appeared to Simon.
    35: And they explained the things that were done on the way, and how they had recognized him at the breaking of the bread
    36: Then, while they were talking about these things, Jesus stood in their midst, And he said to them: “Peace be with you. It is I. Do not be afraid.
    37: Yet truly, they were very disturbed and terrified, supposing that they saw a spirit
    38: And he said to them: “Why are you disturbed, and why do these thoughts rise up in your hearts
    39: See my hands and feet, that it is I myself. Look and touch. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have.
    40: And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet
    41: Then, while they were still in disbelief and in wonder out of joy, he said, “Do you have anything here to eat?
    42: And they offered him a piece of roasted fish and a honeycomb
    43: And when he had eaten these in their sight, taking up what was left, he gave it to them
    44: And he said to them: “These are the words that I spoke to you when I was still with you, because all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses, and in the Prophets, and in the Psalms about me.
    45: Then he opened their mind, so that they might understand the Scriptures
    46: And he said to them: “For so it is written, and so it was necessary, for the Christ to suffer and to rise up from the dead on the third day
    47: and, in his name, for repentance and the remission of sins to be preached, among all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem
    48: And you are witnesses of these things
    49: And I am sending the Promise of my Father upon you. But you must stay in the city, until such time as you are clothed with power from on high.
    50: Then he led them out as far as Bethania. And lifting up his hands, he blessed them
    51: And it happened that, while he was blessing them, he withdrew from them, and he was carried up into heaven
    52: And worshiping, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy
    53: And they were always in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen

End of day 300.