Day 111:

Reading Nehemiah, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Then, on the twenty-fourth day of the same month, the sons of Israel came together in fasting and in sackcloth, and with soil upon them
    2: And the offspring of the sons of Israel were separated from all the sons of foreigners. And they stood up, and they confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers
    3: And they arose to stand. And they read in the volume of the law of the Lord their God, four times in the day, and four times they confessed. And they adored the Lord their God
    4: Then, upon the step of the Levites, Jeshua, and Bani, and Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani rose up. And they cried out in a great voice to the Lord their God
    5: And the Levites, Jeshua and Kadmiel, Bunni, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah said: “Rise up. Bless the Lord your God, from eternity even to eternity! And blessed be the exalted name of your glory, with all blessing and praise
    6: You yourself alone, O Lord, made heaven, and the heaven of the heavens, and all their host, the earth and all things that are in it, the seas and all things that are in them. And you gave life to all these things. And the host of heaven adores you
    7: You yourself, O Lord God, are the One who chose Abram. And you led him away from the fire of the Chaldeans, and you gave him the name Abraham
    8: And you found his heart to be faithful before you. And you formed a covenant with him, so that you might give to him the land of the Canaanite, of the Hittite, and of the Amorite, and of the Perizzite, and of the Jebusite, and of the Girgashite, so that you might give it to his offspring. And you have fulfilled your words, for you are just
    9: And you saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt. And you heard their outcry beside the Red Sea
    10: And you gave signs and portents to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to the people of his land. For you knew that they acted arrogantly against them. And you made a name for yourself, just as it is in this day
    11: And you divided the sea before them, and they crossed through the midst of the sea on dry land. But their pursuers you cast into the depths, like a stone into great waters
    12: And in the pillar of cloud, you were their leader by day, and in the pillar of fire, by night, so that they might see the way along which they might advance
    13: You also descended to mount Sinai, and you spoke with them from heaven. And you gave them upright judgments, and the law of truth, and ceremonies, and good precepts
    14: You revealed to them your sanctified Sabbath, and you instructed them in commandments, and ceremonies, and the law, by the hand of Moses, your servant
    15: You also gave them bread from heaven in their hunger, and you brought forth water from the rock for them in their thirst. And you said to them that they should enter and possess the land, over which you lifted up your hand so that you might give it to them
    16: Yet truly, they and our fathers acted arrogantly, and they hardened their necks, and they did not listen to your commandments
    17: And they were not willing to hear, and they did not remember, your miracles which you had accomplished for them. And they hardened their necks, and they offered their head, so that they would return to their servitude, as if in contention. But you, a forgiving God, lenient and merciful, longsuffering and full of compassion, did not abandon them
    18: Indeed, even when they had made for themselves a molten calf, and they had said, ‘This is your God, who led you away from Egypt!’ and had committed great blasphemies
    19: even so, in the multitude of your mercies, you did not send them away in the desert. The pillar of cloud did not withdraw from them by day, so that it might lead them on the way, nor the pillar of fire by night, so that it might show them the way along which they might advance
    20: And you gave them your good Spirit, so that he might teach them, and you did not withhold your manna from their mouth, and you gave them water in their thirst
    21: For forty years, you fed them in the desert, and nothing was lacking to them; their garments did not grow old, and their feet were not worn down
    22: And you gave them kingdoms and peoples, and you distributed to them by lot. And they possessed the land of Sihon, and the land of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og, the king of Bashan
    23: And you multiplied their sons like the stars of heaven. And you led them into the land, about which you had said to their fathers that they would enter and possess it
    24: And the sons arrived and possessed the land. And you humbled the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, before them. And you delivered them into their hands, with their kings, and the people of the land, so that they might do with them just as it was pleasing to them
    25: And so they seized fortified cities and fat soil. And they possessed houses filled with all kinds of goods, cisterns made by others, vineyards, and olive groves, and fruit trees in abundance. And they ate and were satisfied. And they were fattened, and they abounded with delights from your great goodness
    26: But they provoked you to wrath, and they withdrew from you, and they cast your law behind their backs. And they killed your prophets, who contended with them so that they might return to you. And they committed great blasphemies
    27: And so you gave them into the hand of their enemies, and they afflicted them. And in the time of their tribulation, they cried out to you, and from heaven you heard them. And in accord with your great compassion, you gave to them saviors, who might save them from the hand of their enemies
    28: But after they had rested, they turned back, so that they did evil in your sight. And you abandoned them to the hand of their enemies, and they possessed them. And they converted, and they cried out to you. And from heaven you heeded them, and you freed them many times, by your mercies
    29: And you contended with them, so that they might return to your law. Yet truly, they acted in arrogance, and they did not listen to your commandments, and they sinned against your judgments, which, if a man does them, he shall live by them. And they withdrew from offering their shoulder, and they hardened their neck; neither would they listen
    30: And you continued to forbear them for many years. And you contended with them by your Spirit, through the hand of your prophets. And they did not listen, and so you delivered them into the hand of the peoples of the lands
    31: Yet in your very many mercies, you did not cause them to be consumed, nor did you abandon them. For you are a compassionate and lenient God
    32: Now therefore, our great God, strong and terrible, who keeps covenant and mercy, may you not avert your face from all the hardship that has found us, we and our kings, and our leaders, and our priests, and our prophets, and our fathers, and all the people, from the days of king Assur, even to this day
    33: For you are just, concerning all things that have overwhelmed us. For you have done truth, but we have acted impiously
    34: Our kings, our leaders, our priests, and our fathers have not done your law, and they have not been attentive to your commandments and your testimonies, to which you have testified among them
    35: And they have not served you, in their kingdoms and with your many good things, which you gave to them, and in the very wide and fat land, which you delivered into their sight, nor did they return from their most wicked pursuits
    36: Behold, we ourselves this day are servants. And the land, which you gave to our fathers so that they might eat its bread and have its good things, we ourselves are servants within it
    37: And its fruits are multiplied for the kings, whom you have set over us because of our sins. And they rule over our bodies, and over our cattle, according to their will. And we are in great tribulation
    38: Therefore, concerning all of these things, we ourselves are forming and writing a covenant, and our leaders, our Levites, and our priests are signing it.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And the signatories were: Nehemiah, the cupbearer, the son of Hacaliah, and Zedekiah
    2: Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah
    3: Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah
    4: Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch
    5: Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah
    6: Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch
    7: Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin
    8: Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah; these were the priests
    9: And the Levites were: Jeshua, the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel
    10: and their brothers, Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan
    11: Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah
    12: Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah
    13: Hodiah, Bani, Beninu
    14: The heads of the people were: Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani
    15: Bunni, Azgad, Bebai
    16: Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin
    17: Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur
    18: Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai
    19: Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai
    20: Magpiash, Meshullam, Hazir
    21: Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua
    22: Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah
    23: Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub
    24: Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek
    25: Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah
    26: Ahiah, Hanan, Anan
    27: Malluch, Harim, Baanah
    28: And the rest of the people were the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, and the singers, the temple servants, and all who had separated themselves, from the peoples of the lands, to the law of God, with their wives, their sons, and their daughters
    29: All who were able to understand, pledged on behalf of their brothers, with their nobles, and they came forward to promise and to swear that they would walk in the law of God, which he had given to the hand of Moses, the servant of God, that they would do and keep all the commandments of the Lord our God, and his judgments and his ceremonies
    30: and that we would not give our daughters to the people of the land, and that we would not accept their daughters for our sons
    31: also that, if the people of the land carry in goods for sale or any useful things, so that they might sell them on the day of the Sabbath, that we would not buy them on the Sabbath, nor on a sanctified day, and that we would release the seventh year and the collection of debt from every hand
    32: And we established precepts over ourselves, so that we would give one third part of a shekel each year for the work of the house of our God
    33: for the bread of the presence, and for the continual sacrifice, and for a continual holocaust on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, on the solemnities, and for the holy things, and for the sin offering, so that atonement would be made for Israel, and for every use within the house of our God
    34: Then we cast lots concerning the oblation of the wood among the priests, and the Levites, and the people, so that it would be carried into the house of our God, by the households of our fathers, at set times, from the times of one year to another, so that they might burn upon the altar of the Lord our God, just as it was written in the law of Moses
    35: and so that we might bring in the first-fruits of our land, and the first-fruits of all the produce from every tree, from year to year, in the house of our Lord
    36: and the firstborn of our sons, and of our cattle, just as it was written in the law, and the firstborn of our oxen and our sheep, so that they might be offered in the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God
    37: and so that we might bring in the first-fruits of our foods, and of our libations, and the fruits of every tree, also of the vintage and of the oil, to the priests, to the storehouse of our God, with the tithes of our land for the Levites. The Levites also shall receive tithes from our works out of all the cities
    38: Now the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites in the tithes of the Levites, and the Levites shall offer a tenth part of their tithes in the house of our God, to the storeroom in the house of the treasury
    39: For the sons of Israel and the sons of Levi shall carry to the storehouse the first-fruits of the grain, of the wine, and of the oil. And the sanctified vessels shall be there, and the priests, and the singing men, and the gatekeepers, and the ministers. And we shall not forsake the house of our God

  Chapter 11.

    1: Now the leaders of the people lived in Jerusalem. Yet truly, the remainder of the people cast lots, so that they might choose one part in ten who were to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts for the other cities
    2: Then the people blessed all the men who freely offered themselves to live in Jerusalem
    3: And so these are the leaders of the province, who were living in Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah. Now each one lived in his possession, in their cities: Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the sons of the servants of Solomon
    4: And in Jerusalem, there lived some of the sons of Judah, and some of the sons of Benjamin: of the sons of Judah, Athaiah, the son of Aziam, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez
    5: Maaseiah, the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of a Silonite
    6: All these sons of Perez lived in Jerusalem, four hundred sixty-eight strong men
    7: Now these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah
    8: and after him Gabbai, Sallai. These were nine hundred twenty-eight
    9: And Joel, the son of Zichri, was their foremost leader. And Judah, the son of Hassenuah, was second over the city
    10: And from the priests, there were Jedaiah, the son of Joiarib, Jachin
    11: Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God
    12: and their brothers, who were doing the works of the temple: eight hundred twenty-two. And Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zachariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah
    13: and his brothers, the leaders among the fathers: two hundred forty-two. And Amassai, the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer
    14: and their brothers, who were very powerful: one hundred twenty-eight. And their foremost leader was Zabdiel, the son of the powerful
    15: And from the Levites, there were Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni
    16: and Shabbethai and Jozabad, who were over all the works which were exterior to the house of God, from among the leaders of the Levites
    17: And Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was the leader of praise and confession in prayer, with Bakbukiah, second among his brothers, and Abda, the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun
    18: All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred eighty-four
    19: And the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brothers, who guarded the doorways, were one hundred seventy-two
    20: And the remainder of Israel, the priests and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each one in his own possession
    21: And the temple servants were living at Ophel, with Ziha and Gishpa, of the temple servants
    22: And the director of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi, the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica. The singing men in the ministry of the house of God were from the sons of Asaph
    23: In fact, there was a precept of the king about them, and an order among the singing men, throughout each day
    24: And Pethahiah, the son of Meshezabel, from the sons of Zerah, the son of Judah, was at the hand of the king concerning every word of the people
    25: and in the houses throughout all their regions. Some of the sons of Judah lived at Kiriatharba and in its daughter villages, and at Dibon and in its daughter villages, and at Jekabzeel and in its vicinity
    26: and at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethpelet
    27: and at Hazarshual, and at Beersheba and in its daughter villages
    28: and at Ziklag, and at Meconah and in its daughter villages
    29: and at Enrimmon, and at Zorah, and at Jarmuth
    30: Zanoah, Adullam, and in their villages, at Lachish and its regions, and at Azekah and in its daughter villages. And they dwelt from Beersheba as far as the valley of Hinnom
    31: But the sons of Benjamin lived from Geba, at Michmash, and Aija, and Bethel and in its daughter villages
    32: to Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah
    33: Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim
    34: Hadid, Zeboim, and Neballat, Lod
    35: and Ono, the valley of craftsmen
    36: And some of the Levites were apportioned with Judah and Benjamin

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now these are the priests and the Levites who ascended with Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra
    2: Amariah, Malluch, Hattush
    3: Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth
    4: Iddo, Ginnethon, Abijah
    5: Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah
    6: Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah, Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah
    7: These were the leaders of the priests and of their brothers, in the days of Jeshua
    8: And the Levites, Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, Mattaniah, they and their brothers were over the hymns
    9: with Bakbukiah, as well as Hannai, and their brothers, each one in his office
    10: Now Jeshua conceived Joiakim, and Joiakim conceived Eliashib, and Eliashib conceived Joiada
    11: and Joiada conceived Jonathan, and Jonathan conceived Jaddua
    12: And in the days of Joiakim, the priests and the leaders of the families were: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah
    13: of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan
    14: of Maluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph
    15: of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai
    16: of Adaiah, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam
    17: of Abijah, Zichri; of Mijamin and Moadiah, Piltai
    18: of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan
    19: of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi
    20: of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber
    21: of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel
    22: The Levites, in the days of Eliashib, and Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, and the priests, were written according to the leaders of the families, during the reign of Darius the Persian
    23: The sons of Levi, according to the leaders of the families, were written in the book of the words of those days, even to the days of Johanan, the son of Eliashib
    24: Now the leaders of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua, the son of Kadmiel, and their brothers, in their turns, so that they would praise and confess, according to the precept of David, the man of God. And they served equally and in order
    25: Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were keepers of the gates and of the vestibules before the gates
    26: These were in the days of Joiakim, the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah, the governor, and of Ezra, the priest and scribe
    27: Now at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites from all their places, so that they might bring them to Jerusalem, and so that they might keep the dedication, and rejoice with thanksgiving, and with singing, and with cymbals, psalteries, and lyres
    28: Now the sons of the singing men were gathered from the plains surrounding Jerusalem, and from the villages of Netophati
    29: and from the house of Gilgal, and from the regions of Geba and Azmaveth. For the singing men had built villages for themselves around Jerusalem
    30: And the priests and the Levites were cleansed, and they cleansed the people, and the gates, and the wall
    31: Then I caused the leaders of Judah to ascend the wall, and I appointed two great choirs to give praise. And they went to the right upon the wall, toward the dung gate
    32: And after them went Hoshaiah, and one half part of the leadership of Judah
    33: and Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam, Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah
    34: And some of the sons of the priests went forth with trumpets: Zachariah, the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph
    35: And his brothers, Shemaiah, and Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, and Judah, and Hanani, went forth with the canticles of David, the man of God. And Ezra, the scribe, was before them at the fountain gate
    36: And opposite them, they ascended by the steps of the city of David, at the ascent of the wall above the house of David, and as far as the water gate to the east
    37: And the second choir of those who gave thanks went forth on the opposite side, and I went after them, and one half part of the people were upon the wall, and upon the tower of the furnaces, as far as the widest wall
    38: and above the gate of Ephraim, and above the ancient gate, and above the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hamath, and as far as the flock gate. And they stood still at the watch gate
    39: And the two choirs of those who gave praise stood still at the house of God, with myself and one half part of the magistrates who were with me
    40: And the priests, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Mijamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, Hananiah, went forth with trumpets
    41: with Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers were singing clearly, and Jezrahiah was their foremost leader
    42: And on that day, they immolated great sacrifices, and they rejoiced. For God had caused them to rejoice with great joy. And their wives and children also were glad. And the rejoicing of Jerusalem was heard from far away
    43: On that day also, they enrolled men over the storehouses of the treasury, for the libations, and for the first-fruits, and for the tithes, so that the leaders of the city might bring these in, by them, with proper thanksgiving, for the priests and the Levites. For Judah was rejoicing in the priests and the Levites who were assisting
    44: And they kept the vigil of their God, and the vigil of expiation, with the singing men and the gatekeepers, in accord with the precept of David, and of Solomon, his son
    45: For in the days of David and Asaph, from the beginning, there were leaders appointed over the singers, to give praise in verses, and to confess to God
    46: And all of Israel, in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave portions to the singing men and to the gatekeepers, for each day, and they sanctified the Levites, and the Levites sanctified the sons of Aaron

End of day 111.