Day 359:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['21', '22']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: I saw the new heaven and the new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and the sea is no more
    2: And I, John, saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God, prepared like a bride adorned for her husband
    3: And I heard a great voice from the throne, saying: “Behold the tabernacle of God with men. And he will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be their God with them
    4: And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And death shall be no more. And neither mourning, nor crying out, nor grief shall be anymore. For the first things have passed away.
    5: And the One who was sitting upon the throne, said, “Behold, I make all things new.” And he said to me, “Write, for these words are entirely faithful and true.
    6: And he said to me: “It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. To those who thirst, I will give freely from the fountain of the water of life
    7: Whoever prevails shall possess these things. And I will be his God, and he shall be my son
    8: But the fearful, and the unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and drug users, and idolaters, and all liars, these shall be a part of the pool burning with fire and sulphur, which is the second death.
    9: And one of the seven Angels, those holding the bowls filled with the seven last afflictions, approached and spoke with me, saying: “Come, and I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.
    10: And he took me up in spirit to a great and high mountain. And he showed me the Holy City Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God
    11: having the glory of God. And its light was like that of a precious stone, even like that of the jasper stone or like crystal
    12: And it had a wall, great and high, having twelve gates. And at the gates were twelve Angels. And names were written upon them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel
    13: On the East were three gates, and on the North were three gates, and on the South were three gates, and on the West were three gates
    14: And the wall of the City had twelve foundations. And upon them were the twelve names of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb
    15: And he who was speaking with me was holding a golden measuring reed, in order to measure the City, and its gates and wall
    16: And the city is laid out as a square, and so its length is as great as the width. And he measured the city with the golden reed for twelve thousand stadia, and its length and height and breadth were equal
    17: And he measured its wall as one hundred and forty-four cubits, the measure of a man, which is of an Angel
    18: And the structure of its wall was of jasper stone. Yet truly, the city itself was of pure gold, similar to pure glass
    19: And the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation was of jasper, the second was of sapphire, the third was of chalcedony, the fourth was of emerald
    20: the fifth was of sardonyx, the sixth was of sardius, the seventh was of chrysolite, the eighth was of beryl, the ninth was of topaz, the tenth was of chrysoprasus, the eleventh was of jacinth, the twelfth was of amethyst
    21: And the twelve gates are twelve pearls, one for each, so that each gate was made from a single pearl. And the main street of the city was of pure gold, similar to transparent glass
    22: And I saw no temple in it. For the Lord God Almighty is its temple, and the Lamb
    23: And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine in it. For the glory of God has illuminated it, and the Lamb is its lamp
    24: And the nations shall walk by its light. And the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honor into it
    25: And its gates shall not be closed throughout the day, for there shall be no night in that place
    26: And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it
    27: There shall not enter into it anything defiled, nor anything causing an abomination, nor anything false, but only those who have been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb

  Chapter 22.

    1: And he showed me the river of the water of life, shining like crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb
    2: In the midst of its main street, and on both sides of the river, was the Tree of Life, bearing twelve fruits, offering one fruit for each month, and the leaves of the tree are for the health of the nations
    3: And every curse shall be no more. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants shall serve him
    4: And they shall see his face. And his name shall be on their foreheads
    5: And night shall be no more. And they will not need the light of a lamp, nor the light of the sun, because the Lord God will illuminate them. And they shall reign forever and ever
    6: And he said to me: “These words are entirely faithful and true.” And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his Angel to reveal to his servant what must occur soon
    7: “For behold, I am approaching quickly! Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.
    8: And I, John, heard and saw these things. And, after I had heard and seen, I fell down, so as to adore before the feet of the Angel, who was revealing these things to me
    9: And he said to me: “Be careful not to do so. For I am your fellow servant, and I am among your brothers the prophets, and among those who keep the words of the prophecy of this book. Adore God.
    10: And he said to me: “Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book. For the time is near
    11: Whoever does harm, he might still do harm. And whoever is filthy, he might still be filthy. And whoever is just, he may still be just. And one who is holy, he may still be holy.
    12: “Behold, I am approaching quickly! And my repayment is with me, to render to each one according to his works
    13: I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
    14: Blessed are those who wash their robes in the blood of the Lamb. So may they have a right to the tree of life; so may they enter through the gates into the City
    15: Outside are dogs, and drug users, and homosexuals, and murderers, and those who serve idols, and all who love and do what is false
    16: “I, Jesus, have sent my Angel, to testify to these things for you among the Churches. I am the Root and the Origin of David, the bright morning Star.
    17: And the Spirit and the Bride say: “Draw near.” And whoever hears, let him say: “Draw near.” And whoever thirsts, let him draw near. And whoever is willing, let him accept the water of life, freely
    18: For I call as witnesses all listeners of the words of the prophecy of this book. If anyone will have added to these, God will add upon him the afflictions written in this book
    19: And if anyone will have taken away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his portion from the Book of Life, and from the Holy City, and from these things which have been written in this book
    20: He who offers testimony to these things, says: “Even now, I am approaching quickly.” Amen. Come, Lord Jesus
    21: The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen

End of day 359.