Day 265:

Reading Micah, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The word of the Lord that came to Micah the Moreshethite, in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw about Samaria and Jerusalem
    2: All peoples, listen. And may the earth and its fullness pay attention. And may the Lord God be a witness to you, the Lord from his holy temple
    3: For behold, the Lord will go forth from his place. And he will descend, and he will trample over the high places of the earth
    4: And the mountains will be consumed under him, and the valleys will be torn apart, like wax before the face of fire, and like waters that rush swiftly downward
    5: All this is for the wickedness of Jacob and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the wickedness of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the loftiness of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem
    6: And I will place Samaria like a pile of stones in the field, when a vineyard is planted. And I will pull down its stones into the valley, and I will reveal her foundations
    7: And all her graven images will be cut to pieces, and all her rewards will be burned with fire, and I will place all her idols in perdition. For they have been gathered together from the pay of a kept woman, and even to the pay of a kept woman, they will return
    8: I will lament and wail about this. I will go out despoiled and naked. I will make a howl like the dragons, and a mourning like the ostriches
    9: For her wound has been in despair. For it has come even to Judah. It has touched the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem
    10: Do not be willing to announce it in Gath; may you not lament with tears. In the house of Dust, besprinkle yourselves with dust
    11: And cross over to your dwelling place, Beauty, bewildered by disgrace. She did not depart, who dwells at the place of departure. The House nearby, which remained firm by herself, will receive mourning from you
    12: For she has been weakened in goodness, who dwells in bitterness. For disaster has descended from the Lord to the gate of Jerusalem
    13: A tumult of four-horse chariots has stupefied the inhabitants of Lachish. The beginning has been sin for the daughter of Zion, because in you have been found the evil deeds of Israel
    14: Because of this, she will send emissaries to the inheritance of Gath: the house of Lying in order to deceive the kings of Israel
    15: Nevertheless, I will lead an heir to you, who dwell in Mareshah: the glory of Israel will reach all the way to Adullam
    16: Become bald and shaved for your delicate sons. Increase your baldness like the eagle. For they have been carried into captivity from you

  Chapter 2.

    1: Woe to you who devise useless things and who work evil in your beds. In the morning light, they undertake it, because their hand is against God
    2: And they have desired fields and have taken them by violence, and they have stolen houses. And they have made false accusations against a man and his house, a man and his inheritance
    3: For this reason, thus says the Lord: Behold, I devise an evil against this family, from which you will not steal away your necks. And you will not walk in arrogance, because this is a most wicked time
    4: In that day, a parable will be taken up about you, and a song will be sung with sweetness, saying: “We have been devastated by depopulation.” The fate of my people has been altered. How can he withdraw from me, when he might be turned back, he who might tear apart our country
    5: Because of this, there will be for you no casting of the cord of fate in the assembly of the Lord
    6: Do not speak by saying, “It will not drop on these ones; shame will not embrace them.
    7: The house of Jacob says, “Has the Spirit of the Lord been weakened, or are such things his thoughts?” Are not my words good for him who walks uprightly
    8: But, to the contrary, my people have risen up in opposition. You have lifted the cover from the undergarment, and those who passed by harmlessly, you have converted into war
    9: You have evicted the women among my people from their delicate houses. You have taken my praise forever from their little ones
    10: Rise and depart, for there is no relief for you here. Because of its uncleanness, it will be corrupted with a most wicked decay
    11: I wish that I were not a man who has breath, and that I rather spoke a lie. I will drop it down to you in wine and in drunkenness. And it will be this people on whom it will rain down
    12: I will gather together in a congregation all of you, Jacob. I will lead together as one, the remnant of Israel. I will set them together like a flock in the fold, like a sheep in the midst of the sheep pen. They will cause a tumult before the multitude of men
    13: For he will ascend, opening the way before them. They will separate, and they will cross the gate and enter through it. And their king will pass by, before their very eyes, and the Lord will be at their head

  Chapter 3.

    1: And I said: Listen, leaders of Jacob and chiefs of the house of Israel. Does it not belong to you to know judgment
    2: you who hold hatred for good, and love evil, who violently steal their skins from over them and their flesh from over their bones
    3: They have devoured the flesh of my people, and have stripped their skin from over them, and they have shattered and chopped their bones, as if for the kettle, and like flesh in the middle of the pot
    4: Then they will cry out to the Lord, and he will not heed them. And he will hide his face from them in that time, just as they have acted wickedly with their inventions
    5: Thus says the Lord about the prophets who seduce my people: They bite with their teeth and preach peace, and if anyone does not give something to their mouth, they sanctify a battle against him
    6: Because of this, night will be yours for vision, and darkness yours for divination, and the sun will meet with death over the prophets, and the day will be darkened over them
    7: And those who see visions will be confounded, and the diviners will be confounded. And they will all cover their faces, because there is no response from God
    8: Nevertheless, truly I have been filled with the strength of the Spirit of the Lord, with judgment and virtue, in order to announce to Jacob his wickedness and to Israel his sin
    9: Hear this, leaders of the house of Jacob and judges of the house of Israel, you who abominate judgment and who pervert all that is right
    10: You build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity
    11: Her leaders have judged for tributes, and her priests have taught for payment, and her prophets divined for money. And they leaned upon the Lord, saying: “Is not the Lord in our midst? No disaster will overcome us.
    12: For this reason, because of you, Zion will be plowed under like a field, and Jerusalem will become like a pile of stones, and the mountain of the temple like the high places of the forests

  Chapter 4.

    1: And this shall be: In the last days, the mountain of the house of the Lord will be prepared at the top of the mountains and high above the hills. And the people will flow to it
    2: And many nations will hurry, and will say: “Come, let us ascend to the mountain of the Lord and to the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For the law will go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem
    3: And he will judge among the many peoples, and he will correct strong nations, even from afar. And they will cut up their swords into plows, and their spears into hoes. Nation will not take up the sword against nation, and they will no longer learn to wage war
    4: And a man will sit under his vine and under his fig tree, and there will be no one to fear, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken
    5: For all people will walk, each one in the name of his god. But we will walk in the name of the Lord our God, forever and ever
    6: In that day, says the Lord, I will gather together the lame. And I will recover her whom I had rejected, and her whom I had afflicted
    7: And I will place the lame within the remnant, and she who had been in distress, within a healthy people. And the Lord will reign over them on Mount Zion, from the present time and even unto eternity
    8: And you, cloudy tower of the flock of the daughter of Zion, even to you it will come. And the first power will arrive, the kingdom to the daughter of Jerusalem
    9: Now, why have you come together in grief? Is there not a king in you, or has your counselor gone away? For sorrow has overtaken you, like the pain of giving birth
    10: Be grieved and overwhelmed, daughter of Zion, like a woman giving birth. For now you must depart from the city and dwell in the countryside, and you will approach even to Babylon. There you will be delivered. There the Lord will redeem you from the hand of your adversaries
    11: And now many peoples have been gathered together against you, and they say, “Let her be stoned and let our eyes gaze upon Zion.
    12: But they have not known the thoughts of the Lord, and they have not understood his counsel. For he has gathered them together like hay on a threshing floor
    13: Rise and thresh, daughter of Zion. For I will set your horn like iron, and I will set your hoofs like brass. And you will shatter many peoples, and you will immolate their spoils for the Lord, and their strength for the Lord of the whole earth

End of day 265.