Day 260:

Reading Amos, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw about Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake
    2: And he said: The Lord will roar from Zion, and from Jerusalem he will utter his voice. And the beautiful pastures have mourned, and the top of Carmel has become dry
    3: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Damascus, and for four, I will not convert it, in so far as they have threshed Gilead into iron wagons
    4: And I will send fire onto the house of Hazael, and it will devour the houses of Ben-hadad
    5: And I will shatter the crowbar of Damascus, and I will destroy the inhabitants of the camp of the idol and the holder of the scepter of the house of pleasure; and the people of Syria will be transferred to Cyrene, says the Lord
    6: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Gaza, and for four, I will not convert it, in so far as they have carried out an excellent captivity, so as to enclose them in Idumea
    7: And I will send a fire onto the wall of Gaza, and it will devour its buildings
    8: And I will destroy the inhabitant from Ashdod, and the holder of the scepter of Ashkelon. And I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remainder of the Philistines will perish, says the Lord God
    9: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Tyre, and for four, I will not convert it, in so far as they have completed an excellent captivity in Idumea and have not considered the bond among brothers
    10: And I will send a fire onto the wall of Tyre, and it will devour its buildings
    11: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Edom, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has been pursuing his brother with the sword and has outraged his brother’s compassion, and he has gone beyond his anger and has held onto his indignation until the end
    12: I will send a fire onto Teman, and it will devour the buildings of Bozrah
    13: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of the sons of Ammon, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has cut up the pregnant women of Gilead, so as to expand his limits
    14: And I will ignite a fire on the wall of Rabbah. And it will devour its buildings, with wailing on the day of war, and with a whirlwind on the day of commotion
    15: And Melchom will go into captivity, he and his leaders together, says the Lord

  Chapter 2.

    1: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Moab, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has burned the bones of the king of Idumea, all the way to ashes
    2: And I will send a fire onto Moab, and it will devour the buildings of Kerioth. And Moab will die with a noise, with the blare of a trumpet
    3: And I will destroy the judge in their midst, and I will execute all his leaders with him, says the Lord
    4: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Judah, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has rejected the law of the Lord and has not kept his commandments. For their idols, which their fathers followed, have deceived them
    5: And I will send a fire onto Judah, and it will devour the buildings of Jerusalem
    6: Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Israel, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has sold the just for silver and the poor for shoes
    7: They grind the heads of the poor into the dust of the earth, and they divert the way of the humble. And the son, as well as his father, have gone to the same girl, so that they outrage my holy name
    8: And they have lain on garments taken in pledge next to every altar. And they drank the wine of the damned in the house of their God
    9: Yet I exterminated the Amorites before their face, whose height was like the height of cedars, and whose strength was like the oak. And I crushed his fruit from above and his roots below
    10: It is I who caused you to ascend from the land of Egypt, and I led you in the wilderness for forty years, so that you might possess the land of the Amorite
    11: And I stirred up prophets from your sons, and  Nazirites from your young men. Is it not so, sons of Israel, says the Lord
    12: Yet you would offer wine to the Nazirites, and you would command the prophets, saying: “Do not prophesy.
    13: Behold, I will creak under you, just as a wagon creaks that is laden with hay
    14: And flight will perish from the swift, and the strong will not maintain his strength, and the healthy will not save his life
    15: And one holding the bow will not stand firm, and the swift of foot will not be saved, and the rider on the horse will not save his life
    16: And the stout of heart among the strong will flee away naked in that day, says the Lord

  Chapter 3.

    1: Listen to the word which the Lord has spoken about you, sons of Israel, concerning the whole family that I led out of the land of Egypt, saying
    2: I have known only you in such a way, out of all the families of the earth. For this reason, I will visit upon you all your iniquities
    3: Will two walk together, unless they have agreed to do so
    4: Will a lion roar in the forest, unless he has prey? Will the lion’s young cry out from his den, unless he has taken something
    5: Will a bird fall into a snare on the ground, if there is no bird-catcher? Will a snare be taken away from the ground, before it has caught something
    6: Will the trumpet sound in a city, and the people not become frightened? Will there be disaster in a city, which the Lord has not done
    7: For the Lord God does not fulfill his word, unless he has revealed his secret to his servants the prophets
    8: The lion will roar, who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken, who will not prophesy
    9: Let it be heard in the buildings of Ashdod and in the buildings of the land of Egypt, and say: Gather together across the mountains of Samaria, and see the many absurdities in its midst, and those who are suffering false accusations in its inner most places
    10: And they do not know how to make it right, says the Lord, storing up iniquity and plunder in their buildings
    11: Because of these things, thus says the Lord God: The land will be encircled and squeezed together. And your strength will be drawn away from you, and your buildings will be torn apart
    12: Thus says the Lord: Just as if a shepherd had rescued two legs from the mouth of a lion, or the tip of an ear, so also will the sons of Israel be rescued, who dwell in the sick bed of Samaria, and in the cot of Damascus
    13: Listen and give testimony in the house of Jacob, says the Lord God of hosts
    14: that in the day, when I will begin to visit the betrayals of Israel, I will visit upon him and upon the altars of Bethel. And the horns of the altars will be cut off and will fall to the ground
    15: And I will strike the winter house with the summer house; and the houses of ivory will perish, and many buildings will be torn apart, says the Lord

  Chapter 4.

    1: Listen to this word, you fat cows that are on the mountain of Samaria, you who make false accusations against the destitute and crush the poor, who say to your nobles, “Bring, and we will drink.
    2: The Lord God has sworn in his holiness: behold, the days that will overcome you and that will impale you on poles, and that will place what remains of you in boiling pots
    3: And you will go out through the breaches, one over another, and you will be cast out into Harmon, says the Lord
    4: Come to Bethel and behave impiously, to Gilgal and increase betrayals. And bring daybreak to your victims, your tithes in three days
    5: And offer a sacrifice of praise with leaven. And call for voluntary oblations, and announce it. For such is your will, sons of Israel, says the Lord God
    6: Therefore, because of this, I have given you dull teeth in every one of your cities, and a lack of bread in all your places. And you have not been turned back towards me, says the Lord
    7: Therefore, I have withheld the rains from you, when there were still three months left until the harvest. And I rained on one city, and I did not rain on another city; one part was rained on, and the part on which I did not rain, dried out
    8: And two and three cities went to one city, in order to drink water, and they were not satisfied. And you did not return to me, says the Lord
    9: I struck you with a burning wind and with yellowing; the caterpillar  has consumed your many gardens and your vineyards, your olive groves and your fig groves. And you did not return to me, says the Lord
    10: I sent death to you by way of Egypt; I struck your youths with the sword, even bringing captivity to your horses. And I made the stench of your camp ascend into your nostrils. And you did not return to me, says the Lord
    11: I overturned you, just as God overturned Sodom and Gomorrah, and you became like an ember seized from the fire. And you did not return to me, says the Lord
    12: Because of this, I will do these things to you, Israel. But after I have done these things to you, Israel, be prepared to meet your God
    13: For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind and announces his speech to man, who makes the morning mist and steps over the heights of the earth: the Lord God of hosts is his name

End of day 260.