Day 252:

Reading Daniel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Belshazzar, the king, made a great feast for a thousand of his nobles, and each one of them drank according to his age
    2: And so, when they were drunk, he instructed that the vessels of gold and silver should be brought, which Nebuchadnezzar, his father, had carried away from the temple, which was in Jerusalem, so that the king, and his nobles, and his wives, and the concubines, might drink from them
    3: Then the gold and silver vessels were presented, which he had carried away from the temple and which had been in Jerusalem, and the king, and his nobles, wives, and concubines, drank from them
    4: They drank wine, and they praised their gods of gold, and silver, brass, iron, and wood and stone
    5: In the same hour, there appeared fingers, as of the hand of a man, writing on the surface of the wall, opposite the candlestick, in the king’s palace. And the king observed the part of the hand that wrote
    6: Then the king’s countenance was changed, and his thoughts disturbed him, and he lost his self-control, and his knees knocked against one other
    7: And the king cried out loudly for them to bring in the astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers. And the king proclaimed to the wise men of Babylon, saying, “Whoever will read this writing and make known to me its interpretation will be clothed with purple, and will have a golden chain on his neck, and will be third in my kingdom.
    8: Then, in came all the wise men of the king, but they could neither read the writing, nor reveal the interpretation to the king
    9: Therefore, king Belshazzar was quite confused, and his face was altered, and even his nobles were disturbed
    10: But the queen, because of what had happened to the king and his nobles, entered the banquet house. And she spoke out, saying, “O king, live forever. Do not let your thoughts confuse you, neither should your face be altered
    11: There is a man in your kingdom, who has the spirit of the holy gods within himself, and in the days of your father, knowledge and wisdom were found in him. For king Nebuchadnezzar, your father, appointed him leader of the astrologers, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers, even your father, I say to you, O king
    12: For a greater spirit, and foresight, and understanding, and interpretation of dreams, and the revealing of secrets, and the solution to difficulties were found in him, that is, in Daniel, to whom the king gave the name Belteshazzar. Now, therefore, let Daniel be summoned, and he will explain the interpretation.
    13: Then Daniel was brought in before the king. And the king spoke to him, saying, “Are you Daniel, of the sons of the captivity of Judah, whom my father the king led out of Judea
    14: I have heard of you, that you have the spirit of the gods, and that greater knowledge, as well as understanding and wisdom, have been found in you
    15: And now the wise astrologers have entered into my presence, so as to read this writing and to reveal to me its interpretation. And they were not able to tell me the meaning of this writing
    16: Furthermore, I have heard about you that you can interpret obscure things and solve difficulties. So then, if you succeed in reading the writing, and in revealing its interpretation, you will be clothed with purple, and you will have a chain of gold around your neck, and you will be the third leader in my kingdom.
    17: To this Daniel responded by saying directly to the king, “Your rewards should be for yourself, and the gifts of your house you may give to another, but I will read to you the writing, O king, and I will reveal to you its interpretation
    18: O king, the Most High God gave to Nebuchadnezzar, your father, a kingdom and greatness, glory and honor
    19: And because of the greatness that he gave to him, all peoples, tribes, and languages trembled and were afraid of him. Whomever he wished, he put to death; and whomever he wished, he destroyed; and whomever he wished, he exalted; and whomever he wished, he lowered
    20: But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened in arrogance, he was deposed from the throne of his kingdom and his glory was taken away
    21: And he was expelled from the sons of men, and so his heart was placed with the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys, and he ate hay like an ox, and his body was drenched with the dew of heaven, until he realized that the Most High holds power over the kingdom of men, and that whoever he wishes, he will set over it
    22: Likewise, you, his son Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all these things
    23: But you have lifted yourself up against the Lord of heaven. And the vessels of his house have been presented before you. And you, and your nobles, and your wives, and your concubines, have drunk wine from them. Likewise, you have praised the gods of silver, and gold, and brass, iron, and wood and stone, who neither see, nor hear, nor feel, yet you have not glorified the God who holds your breath and all your ways in his hand
    24: Therefore, he has sent the part of the hand which has written this, which has been inscribed
    25: But this is the writing that has been decreed:  MANE, THECEL, PHARES
    26: And this is the interpretation of the words. MANE:  God has numbered your kingdom and has finished it
    27: THECEL:  you have been weighed on the scales and found lacking
    28: PHARES:  your kingdom has been divided and has been given to the Medes and the Persians
    29: Then, by the king’s command, Daniel was dressed with purple, and a chain of gold was placed around his neck, and it was proclaimed of him that he held power as the third in the kingdom
    30: That same night, king Belshazzar the Chaldean was killed
    31: And Darius the Mede succeeded to the kingdom, at the age of sixty-two years

  Chapter 6.

    1: It pleased Darius, and so he appointed over the kingdom one hundred twenty governors, to be placed throughout his whole kingdom
    2: And over these, three leaders, of whom Daniel was one, so that the governors would be accountable to them and the king would have no trouble
    3: And so Daniel excelled above all the leaders and governors, because a greater spirit of God was in him
    4: Furthermore, the king considered setting him over the entire kingdom; whereupon the leaders and the governors sought to find a complaint against Daniel and in favor of the king. And they could find no case, or even suspicion, because he was faithful, and no fault or suspicion was found in him
    5: Therefore, these men said, “We will not find any complaint against this Daniel, unless it is against the law of his God.
    6: Then the leaders and governors took the king aside privately and spoke to him in this way:  “King Darius, live forever
    7: All the leaders of your kingdom, the magistrates and governors, the senators and judges, have taken counsel that an imperial decree and edict should be published, so that all who ask any petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of you, O king, will be cast into the den of lions
    8: Now, therefore, O king, confirm this judgment and write the decree, so that what is established by the Medes and Persians may not be altered, nor will any man be allowed to transgress it.
    9: And so king Darius set forth the decree and established it
    10: Now when Daniel learned of this, namely, that the law had been established, he entered his house, and, opening the windows in his upper room towards Jerusalem, he knelt down three times a day, and he adored and gave thanks before his God, as he had been accustomed to do previously
    11: Therefore, these men, inquiring diligently, discovered that Daniel was praying and making supplication to his God
    12: And they approached and spoke to the king about the edict. “O king, did you not decree that every man who makes a request to any of the gods or men for thirty days, except to yourself, O king, would be cast into the den of lions?” To which the king replied, saying, “The sentence is true, and according to the decree of the Medes and Persians, it is not lawful to violate it.
    13: Then they answered and said before the king, “Daniel, of the sons of the captivity of Judah, is not concerned about your law, nor about the decree that you have established, but three times a day he prays his supplication.
    14: Now when the king had heard these words, he was greatly grieved, and, on behalf of Daniel, he set his heart to free him, and he labored even until sunset to rescue him
    15: But these men, knowing the king, said to him, “You know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is that every decree which the king has established may not be altered.
    16: Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel and cast him into the den of lions. And the king said to Daniel, “Your God, whom you always serve, he himself will free you.
    17: And a stone was brought, and it was placed over the mouth of the den, which the king sealed with his own ring, and with the ring of his nobles, so that no one would act against Daniel
    18: And the king departed into his house, and he went to bed without eating, and food was not set before him, moreover, even sleep fled from him
    19: Then the king, getting himself up at first light, went quickly to the den of lions
    20: And coming near to the den, he cried out with a tearful voice to Daniel and spoke to him. “Daniel, servant of the living God, your God, whom you serve always, do you believe he has prevailed to free you from the lions?
    21: And Daniel, answering the king, said, “O king, live forever
    22: My God has sent his angel, and he has closed the mouths of the lions, and they have not harmed me, because before him justice has been found in me, and, even before you, O king, I have committed no offense.
    23: Then was the king exceedingly glad for him, and he commanded that Daniel should be taken out of the den. And Daniel was taken out of the den, and no wound was found in him, because he believed in his God
    24: Moreover, by order of the king, those men were brought who had accused Daniel, and they were cast into the lions’ den, they, and their sons, and their wives, and they did not reach the bottom of the den before the lions seized them and crushed all their bones
    25: Then king Darius wrote to all peoples, tribes, and languages dwelling in all the land. “May peace be increased with you
    26: It is hereby established by my decree that, in all my empire and my kingdom, they shall begin to tremble and fear the God of Daniel. For he is the living and eternal God forever, and his kingdom will not be destroyed, and his power will last forever
    27: He is the liberator and the savior, performing signs and wonders in heaven and on earth, who has freed Daniel from the lions’ den.
    28: Thereafter, Daniel continued through the reign of Darius until the reign of Cyrus, the Persian

  Chapter 7.

    1: In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and a vision in his head on his bed. And, writing down the dream, he understood it in a concise manner, and so, summarizing it tersely, he said
    2: I saw in my vision at night, and behold, the four winds of the heavens fought upon the great sea
    3: And four great beasts, different from one another, ascended from the sea
    4: The first was like a lioness and had the wings of an eagle. I watched as its wings were plucked off, and it was raised from the earth and stood on its feet like a man, and the heart of a man was given to it
    5: And behold, another beast, like a bear, stood to one side, and there were three rows in its mouth and in its teeth, and they spoke to it in this way:  “Arise, devour much flesh.
    6: After this, I watched, and behold, another like a leopard, and it had wings like a bird, four upon it, and four heads were on the beast, and power was given to it
    7: After this, I watched in the vision of the night, and behold, a fourth beast, terrible yet wondrous, and exceedingly strong; it had great iron teeth, eating yet crushing, and trampling down the remainder with his feet, but it was unlike the other beasts, which I had seen before it, and it had ten horns
    8: I considered the horns, and behold, another little horn rose out of the midst of them. And three of the first horns were rooted out by its presence. And behold, eyes like the eyes of a man were in this horn, and a mouth speaking unnatural things
    9: I watched until thrones were set up, and the ancient of days sat down. His garment was radiant like snow, and the hair of his head like clean wool; his throne was flames of fire, its wheels had been set on fire
    10: A river of fire rushed forth from his presence. Thousands upon thousands ministered to him, and ten thousand times hundreds of thousands attended before him. The trial began, and the books were opened
    11: I watched because of the voice of the great words which that horn was speaking, and I saw that the beast had been destroyed, and its body was ruined and had been handed over to be burnt with fire
    12: Likewise, the power of the other beasts was taken away, and a limited time of life was appointed to them, until one time and another
    13: I watched, therefore, in the vision of the night, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man arrived, and he approached all the way to the ancient of days, and they presented him before him
    14: And he gave him power, and honor, and the kingdom, and all peoples, tribes, and languages will serve him. His power is an eternal power, which will not be taken away, and his kingdom, one which will not be corrupted
    15: My spirit was terrified. I, Daniel, was fearful at these things, and the visions of my head disturbed me
    16: I approached one of the attendants and asked the truth from him about all these things. He told me the interpretation of the words, and he instructed me
    17: “These four great beasts are four kingdoms, which will rise from the earth
    18: Yet it is the saints of the Most High God who will receive the kingdom, and they will hold the kingdom from this generation, and forever and ever.
    19: After this, I wanted to learn diligently about the fourth beast, which was very different from all, and exceedingly terrible; his teeth and claws were of iron; he devoured and crushed, and the remainder he trampled with his feet
    20: and about the ten horns, which he had on his head, and about the other, which had sprung up, before which three horns fell, and about that horn which had eyes and a mouth speaking great things, and which was more powerful than the rest
    21: I watched, and behold, that horn made war against the holy ones and prevailed over them
    22: until the Ancient of days came and gave judgment to the holy ones of the Supreme One, and the time arrived, and the holy ones obtained the kingdom
    23: And thus he said, “The fourth beast will be the fourth kingdom on earth, which will be greater than all the kingdoms, and will devour the whole earth, and will trample and crush it
    24: Moreover, the ten horns of the same kingdom will be ten kings, and another will rise up after them, and he will be mightier than the ones before him, and he will bring down three kings
    25: And he will speak words against the Supreme One, and will exhaust the holy ones of the Most High, and he will think about what it would take to change the times and the laws, and they will be given into his hand until a time, and times, and half a time
    26: And a trial will begin, so that his power may be taken away, and be crushed, and be undone all the way to the end
    27: Yet the kingdom, and the power, and the greatness of that kingdom, which is under all of heaven, shall be given to the people of the holy ones of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all kings will serve and obey him.
    28: And here is the end of the message. I, Daniel, was greatly disturbed by my thoughts, and my mood was changed in me, but I preserved the message in my heart

  Chapter 8.

    1: In the third year of the reign of Belshazzar the king, a vision appeared to me. After that which I had seen in the beginning, I, Daniel
    2: saw in my vision, that I was in the capital city of Susa, which is in the region of Elam, yet I saw in the vision that I was over the gate of Ulai
    3: And I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, a single ram stood before the marsh, having two high horns, and one was higher than the other and growing higher still
    4: After this, I saw the ram brandishing his horns against the West, and against the North, and against the Meridian, and all the beasts could not withstand him, nor be freed from his hand, and he did according to his own will, and he became great
    5: And I understood, and behold, a he-goat among she-goats came from the West above the face of the entire earth, and he did not touch the ground. Furthermore, the he-goat had a preeminent horn between his eyes
    6: And he went all the way to the ram that had the horns, which I had seen standing before the gate, and he ran towards him in the force of his strength
    7: And when he approached near to the ram, he was enraged against him, and he struck the ram, and broke his two horns, and the ram could not withstand him, and when he had cast him down on the ground, he trampled him, and no one was able to free the ram from his hand
    8: But the he-goat among she-goats became exceedingly great, and when he had prospered, the great horn was shattered, and four horns were rising up beneath it by means of the four winds of heaven
    9: But from one of them came forth one little horn, and it became great against the Meridian, and against the East, and against the strength
    10: And it was magnified even towards the strength of heaven, and it threw down those of the strength and of the stars, and it trampled them
    11: And it was magnified, even to the leader of the strength, and it took away from him the continual sacrifice, and cast down the place of his sanctuary
    12: And the advantage was given to him against the continual sacrifice, because of the sins, and truth will be struck down to the ground, and he will act, and he will prosper
    13: And I heard one of the holy ones speaking, and one saint said to another, (I know not to whom he was speaking,) “What is the extent of the vision, and the continual sacrifice, and the sin of the desolation, which has happened, and of the sanctuary and the strength, which will be trampled?
    14: And he said to him, “From evening until morning, two thousand three hundred days, and so the sanctuary will be cleansed.
    15: But it came to pass, when I, Daniel, saw the vision and sought understanding that, behold, there stood in my sight something like the appearance of a man
    16: And I heard the voice of a man within Ulai, and he called out and said, “Gabriel, make this one understand the vision.
    17: And he came and stood next to where I was standing, and when he approached, I fell on my face, trembling, and he said to me, “Understand, son of man, for in the time of the end the vision will be fulfilled.
    18: And when he spoke to me, I fell forward onto the ground, and so he touched me and stood me upright
    19: And he said to me, “I will reveal to you what the future things are in the earlier tribulation, for the time has its end
    20: The ram, which you saw to have horns, is the king of the Medes and Persians
    21: Furthermore, the he-goat among she-goats is the king of the Greeks, and the great horn, which was between his eyes, is the same one, the first king
    22: And since, having been shattered, there grew four in its place, four kings will rise up from his people, but not in his strength
    23: And after their reign, when iniquities will be increased, there will arise a king of shameless face and understanding negotiations
    24: And his advantage will be strengthened, but not by his kind of force, and other than what he will be able to trust, everything will be eradicated, and he will prosper, and he will act. And he will execute the successful and the people of the saints
    25: according to his will, and treachery will be guided by his hand. And his heart will be inflated, and by the abundance of everything he will kill many, and he will rise up against the Lord of lords, and he will be knocked down without a hand
    26: And the vision of the evening and the morning, which was told, is true. Therefore, you must seal the vision, because, after many days, it will occur.
    27: And I, Daniel, languished and was sick for some days, and when I had lifted myself up, I performed the king’s works, and I was astonished at the vision, and there was none who could interpret it

End of day 252.