Day 166:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['121', '122', '123', '124']:

  Chapter 121.

    1: A Canticle in steps. I rejoiced in the things that were said to me: “We shall go into the house of the Lord.
    2: Our feet were standing in your courts, O Jerusalem
    3: Jerusalem has been built as a city, whose participation is unto itself
    4: For to that place, the tribes ascended, the tribes of the Lord: the testimony of Israel, to confess to the name of the Lord
    5: For in that place, seats have sat down in judgment, seats above the house of David
    6: Petition for the things that are for the peace of Jerusalem, and for abundance for those who love you
    7: Let peace be in your virtue, and abundance in your towers
    8: For the sake of my brothers and my neighbors, I spoke peace about you
    9: For the sake of the house of the Lord our God, I sought good things for you

  Chapter 122.

    1: A Canticle in steps. I have lifted up my eyes to you, who dwells in the heavens
    2: Behold, as the eyes of the servants are on the hands of their masters, as the eyes of the handmaid are on the hands of her mistress, so our eyes are upon the Lord our God, until he may be merciful to us
    3: Have mercy on us, O Lord, have mercy on us. For we have been filled with utter disdain
    4: For our soul has been greatly filled. We are the disgrace of those who have abundance and the disdain of the arrogant

  Chapter 123.

    1: A Canticle in steps. If the Lord had not been with us, let Israel now say it
    2: if the Lord had not been with us, when men rose up against us
    3: perhaps they would have swallowed us alive. When their fury was enraged against us
    4: perhaps the waters would have engulfed us
    5: Our soul has passed through a torrent. Perhaps, our soul had even passed through intolerable water
    6: Blessed is the Lord, who has not given us into the harm of their teeth
    7: Our soul has been snatched away like a sparrow from the snare of the hunters. The snare has been broken, and we have been freed
    8: Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth

  Chapter 124.

    1: A Canticle in steps. Those who trust in the Lord will be like the mountain of Zion. He will not be disturbed for eternity, who dwell
    2: in Jerusalem. Mountains surround it. And the Lord surrounds his people, from this time forward and even forever
    3: For the Lord will not allow the rod of sinners to remain over the lot of the just, so that the just may not extend their hands toward iniquity
    4: Do good, O Lord, to the good and to the upright of heart
    5: But those who turn away into obligation, the Lord will lead away with the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel

End of day 166.