Day 279:

Reading 1-Maccabees, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And Simon heard that Trypho had gathered together an immense army to come to the land of Judah and to lay waste to it
    2: Seeing that the people were fearful and trembling, he went up to Jerusalem, and he gathered together the people
    3: And exhorting them, he said: “You know what great battles I, and my brothers, and the house of my father, have fought for the laws and for the holy places, and the anguish that we have seen
    4: As a result these things, all my brothers have perished for the sake of Israel, and I have been left alone
    5: And now, it is not necessary for me to spare my life in any time of tribulation. For I am not better than my brothers
    6: And so, I will vindicate my people and the sanctuary, and likewise our children and wives. For all the Gentiles have gathered together to crush us, solely out of malice.
    7: And the spirit of the people was immediately enkindled, when they heard these words
    8: And they responded with a loud voice, saying: “You are our leader in place of Judas and of Jonathan, your brother
    9: Fight our battles, and we will do whatever you tell us to do.
    10: And so, gathering together all the men of war, he accelerated the completion of all the walls of Jerusalem, and he fortified it all around
    11: And he sent Jonathan, the son of Absalom, and with him a new army, into Joppa, and he cast out those who were in it, and he himself remained there
    12: And Trypho moved from Ptolemais, with a great army, to come into the land of Judah, and Jonathan was with him in custody
    13: But Simon took up a position at Addus, opposite the face of the plains
    14: And when Trypho realized that Simon rose up in the place of his brother, Jonathan, and that he would be joining in battle with him, he sent messengers to him
    15: saying: “We have detained your brother, Jonathan, because of the money that he owed to the king’s account, because of the matters for which he was responsible
    16: And now, send a hundred talents of silver, and two of his sons for hostages, so that when he is dismissed, he may not flee from us. And then we will release him.
    17: And Simon knew that he was speaking deceitfully to him. Yet he ordered the money and the boys to be given, lest he should bring upon himself a great hostility from the people of Israel, who might have said
    18: “It is because he did not send the money and the boys that he perished.
    19: So he sent the boys and one hundred talents. And he was lying and did not dismiss Jonathan
    20: And after this, Trypho came into the country, to crush it. And they circled around by the way that leads to Adora. And Simon and his camp marched into every place, wherever they went
    21: But those who were in the stronghold sent messengers to Trypho, so that he would hurry to come through the desert, and to send them provisions
    22: And Trypho prepared all his horsemen to arrive on that night. But there was a very great snowfall, and he did not come into Gilead
    23: And when he approached toward Baskama, he killed Jonathan and his sons there
    24: And Trypho turned back and went into his own land
    25: And Simon sent and took the bones of Jonathan, his brother, and he buried them in Modin, the city of his fathers
    26: And all Israel bewailed him with great lamentation. And they mourned him for many days
    27: And Simon built, over the sepulcher of his father and of his brothers, a building, lofty to see, of polished stone, front and back
    28: And he set up seven pyramids, one against another, for his father, and his mother, and his four brothers
    29: And around these he placed great columns; and upon the columns, weapons, as a continual memorial; and beside the weapons, carvings of ships, which might be seen by all those who sail the sea
    30: This is the sepulcher that he made in Modin, even to this day
    31: But Trypho, when he was on a journey with the young king, Antiochus, killed him by deceit
    32: And he reigned in his place, and he put on the diadem of Asia, and he caused great scourges upon the land
    33: And Simon built up the strongholds of Judea, fortifying them with high towers, and great walls, and gates and bars. And he placed provisions in the fortresses
    34: And Simon chose men, and he sent to king Demetrius, so that he would grant a remission to the region, for all that Trypho did was to carry out plundering
    35: And king Demetrius responded to this word, and he wrote a letter in this manner
    36: “King Demetrius to Simon, the high priest and friend of kings, and to the elders, and to the people of the Jews: greetings
    37: The golden crown and the bahem that you sent, we have received. And we are prepared to make a great peace with you, and to write to the officers of the king to remit to you the things that we have released
    38: For whatever we have established remains in force for you. The strongholds that you have built, let them be yours
    39: Likewise, any oversight or fault, even to this day, we forgive it, along with the crown that you owed. And if anything else was taxed in Jerusalem, now let it not be taxed
    40: And if any of you is fit to be enrolled among our own, let them be enrolled. And let there be peace between us.
    41: In the one hundred and seventieth year, the yoke of the Gentiles was taken away from Israel
    42: And the people of Israel began to write in the tablets and the public records, in the first year under Simon: high priest, great commander, and leader of the Jews
    43: In those days, Simon took up a position at Gaza, and he encamped around it, and he made machines of war, and he applied them to the city, and he struck one tower and captured it
    44: And those who were within the machine broke forth into the city. And a great commotion occurred in the city
    45: And those who were in the city ascended upon the wall, with their wives and children, having torn their tunics. And they cried out with a loud voice, asking Simon to grant them a pledge
    46: And they said, “Do not repay us according to our malice, but according to your mercy.
    47: And weeping, Simon did not destroy them. Yet he cast them out of the city, and he cleansed the buildings, in which there had been idols. And then he entered into it with hymns, blessing the Lord
    48: And, having cast out of it all uncleanness, he placed in it men who would observe the law. And he fortified it and made it his dwelling place
    49: But those who were in the stronghold of Jerusalem were prohibited from going out and entering the region, and from buying and selling. And they were very hungry, and many of them perished through famine
    50: And they cried out to Simon, that they might receive a pledge, and he granted it to them. And he cast them out of there, and he cleansed the stronghold from contaminations
    51: And they entered into it on the twenty-third day of the second month, in the one hundred and seventy-first year, with thanksgiving, and palm branches, and lyres, and cymbals, and psalteries, and hymns, and canticles, because a great enemy had been crushed out of Israel
    52: And he established that these days should be kept every year with rejoicing
    53: And he fortified the mountain of the temple, which was near the stronghold, and he lived there himself, along with those who were with him
    54: And Simon saw that John, his son, was a valiant man in battle. And so he appointed him as commander of all the forces. And he lived in Gazara

  Chapter 14.

    1: In the one hundred and seventy-second year, king Demetrius gathered together his army, and he went into Media to obtain auxiliaries to fight against Trypho
    2: And Arsaces, the king of Persia and Media, heard that Demetrius entered his confines, and so he sent one of his princes to capture him alive and to bring him to him
    3: And he went out and struck the camp of Demetrius. And captured him and brought him to Arsaces, and he placed him under guard
    4: And the entire land of Judah was quiet during all the days of Simon, and he sought what was good for his people. And his power and his glory pleased them through all his days
    5: And, with all his glory, he accepted Joppa as a port, and he made it an entrance to the islands of the sea
    6: And he enlarged the boundaries of his nation, and he controlled the countryside
    7: And he gathered together many captives, and he was the ruler of Gazara and Bethzur, and the stronghold. And he took uncleanness away from it, and there was no one who could withstand him
    8: And each one cultivated his land in peace, and the land of Judah produced its fruits, and the trees of the fields their fruit
    9: All the elders sat in the streets, and they discussed what was good for the country, and the youths clothed themselves in glory and in the robes of war
    10: And he gave tributes of provisions to the cities, and he decreed that they would have equipment for fortification, so that the fame of his glory was renowned, even to the ends of the earth
    11: He caused there to be peace over the land, and Israel was rejoicing with great joy
    12: And each one sat under his vine and under his fig tree. And there was no one who would terrify them
    13: There was nothing left of those who might fight against them in the land; kings had been crushed in those days
    14: And he confirmed all the humble of his people, and he sought the law, and he took away every iniquity and evil
    15: He glorified the sanctuary, and he multiplied the vessels of the holy places
    16: And it was heard at Rome, and even in Sparta, that Jonathan had passed away. And they were very sorrowful
    17: But when they heard that Simon, his brother, had been made high priest in his place, and that he obtained the entire country and the cities in it
    18: they wrote to him on tablets of brass, so as to renew the friendship and alliance, which they had made with Judas and with Jonathan, his brothers
    19: And they were read in the sight of the assembly at Jerusalem. And this is a copy of the letters that the Spartans sent
    20: “The leaders and the cities of the Spartans, to Simon, the great priest, and to the elders, and the priests, and the rest of the people of the Jews, their brothers: greetings
    21: The ambassadors who were sent to our people have reported to us of your glory, and honor, and rejoicing. And we were glad at their arrival
    22: And we wrote down what was said by them in the councils of the people, as follows: ‘Numenius, the son of Antiochus, and Antipater, the son of Jason, ambassadors of the Jews, came to us to renew the former friendship with us
    23: And it pleased the people to receive the men gloriously, and to place a copy of their words in a section of the public books, so as to be a memorial for the people of the Spartans. Furthermore, we have written a copy of them to Simon, the great priest.’ 
    24: But after this, Simon sent Numenius to Rome, in possession of a great shield of gold, weighing over a thousand pounds, to confirm the association with them
    25: But when the people of Rome had heard these words, they said: “With what deeds of thanksgiving shall we repay Simon and his sons
    26: For he has vindicated his brothers, and he has fought off the enemies of Israel from them.” And so, they decreed him free, and they registered it on tablets of brass and placed it in an inscription on mount Zion
    27: And this is a copy of the writing: “On the eighteenth day of the month Elul, in the one hundred and seventy-second year, the third year under Simon, the great priest at Asaramel
    28: in a great convocation of the priests, and the people, and the leaders of the nation, and the elders of the country, these things were noted: ‘Now there have often been battles in our country
    29: And Simon, the son of Mattathias, of the sons of Jarib, and his brothers, have put themselves in danger, and have withstood the enemies of their nation, so as to establish their holy places and the law. And they have glorified their people with great glory
    30: And Jonathan gathered together his nation, and he was made their great priest, and he was laid to rest among his people
    31: And their enemies wanted to trample and lay waste to their country, and to extend their hands against their holy places
    32: Then Simon resisted, and he fought for his nation, and he requested much money, and he armed the valiant men of his nation and gave them wages
    33: And he fortified the cities of Judea and Bethzur, which are along the borders of Judea, where the weaponry of the enemies was before. And he placed a garrison of Jewish men there
    34: And he fortified Joppa, which is by the sea, and Gazara, which is on the border of Azotus, where the enemies stayed before, and he placed Jews there. And he positioned with them whatever was fitting for their preparations
    35: And the people saw the acts of Simon, and the glory that he intended to bring to his nation, and they made him their commander and first priest, because he had done all these things, and because of the justice and faith that he maintained for his nation, and because he sought to exalt his people by all means
    36: And in his days, there was prosperity by his hands, so that the Gentiles were taken away from their country, and also those who were in the city of David, in Jerusalem, in the stronghold, from which they went out and contaminated all the places that were around the sanctuary, and from which they brought a great scourging against chastity
    37: And he placed in it Jewish men, as a means of protection for the region and the city, and he raised the walls of Jerusalem
    38: And king Demetrius confirmed him in the high priesthood
    39: According to these things, he made him his friend, and he glorified him with great glory
    40: For he heard that the Romans had called the Jews their friends, and associates, and brothers, and that they received the ambassadors of Simon with glory
    41: and that the Jews and their priests had consented that he should be their governor and high priest unceasingly, until there should arise a faithful prophet
    42: and that he should be the commander over them, and that he should take care of the sanctuary, and that he should appoint foremen over their works, and over the country, and over the weapons, and over the strongholds
    43: and that he should take care of the holy places, and that he should be obeyed by all, and that all the records in the country should be recorded in his name, and that he should be clothed in purple and gold
    44: and that it should not be lawful for any of the people or the priests to make void any of these things, nor to contradict things that are said by him, nor to call together an assembly in the country without him, nor to be clothed in purple, nor to use a clasp of gold
    45: And whoever will do otherwise, or who will make void any of these things, shall be guilty
    46: And it pleased all the people to appoint Simon, and to act according to these words
    47: And Simon accepted it, and he was pleased to perform the office of the high priesthood, and to be the commander and leader of the people of the Jews, and of the priests, and to be foremost over them all
    48: And they asked that this writing be placed on tablets of brass, and be placed within the precinct of the sanctuary in a celebrated place
    49: and that a copy of these be placed in the treasury, so that Simon and his sons may have it.’ 

  Chapter 15.

    1: And king Antiochus, the son of Demetrius, sent letters from the islands of the sea to Simon, the priest and leader of the nation of the Jews, and to all the people
    2: And these continued in this way: “King Antiochus to Simon, the great priest, and to the people of the Jews: greetings
    3: Since certain pestilent persons have obtained the kingdom of our fathers, it is my will, then, to vindicate the kingdom and to restore it, just as it was before. And so, I have chosen a great army, and I have built ships of war
    4: Furthermore, I intend to pass through the region, so that I may take revenge on those who have corrupted our country and who have desolated many cities in my kingdom
    5: Now, therefore, I confirm to you all the oblations that all the kings before me have remitted to you, and whatever other gifts they remitted to you
    6: And I permit you to make a striking of your own coins for your country
    7: Moreover, let Jerusalem be holy and free. And all the weapons that have been made, and the fortresses that you have constructed, or that you hold, let them remain with you
    8: And all that is owed to the king, and what should belong to the king in the future, from this time and for all time, is remitted to you
    9: Yet, when we have obtained our kingdom, we will glorify you, and your nation, and the temple with great glory, so much so that your glory shall be made manifest in all the earth.
    10: In the one hundred and seventy-fourth year, Antiochus went into the land of his fathers, and all the armies came over to him, so that few were left with Trypho
    11: And king Antiochus followed him as he fled along the sea coast and came to Dora
    12: For he knew that evils had gathered together upon him, and that his troops had forsaken him
    13: And Antiochus took up a position above Dora, with one hundred and twenty thousand men of warfare and eight thousand horsemen
    14: And he encircled the city, and the ships drew near by sea. And they assailed the city by land and by sea, and they permitted no one to go in or out
    15: But Numenius, and those who had been with him, came from the city of Rome, having letters written to the kings and the regions, in which was contained these things
    16: “Lucius, consul of the Romans, to king Ptolemy: greetings
    17: The ambassadors of the Jews, our friends, came to us, to renew the former friendship and alliance, having been sent from Simon, the leader of the priests and the people of the Jews
    18: And they also brought a shield of gold of over a thousand pounds
    19: And so, it was pleasing to us to write to the kings and the regions, that they should do no harm to them, nor fight against them, and their cities, and their regions, and that they should bear no assistance to those fighting against them
    20: And it seemed good to us to receive the shield from them
    21: If, therefore, those who are pestilent have taken refuge with you from their region, hand them over to Simon, the leader of the priests, so that he may give a verdict to them according to their law.
    22: These same things were written to king Demetrius, and to Attalus, and to Ariarathes, and to Arsaces
    23: and to all the regions, and to Lampsacus and to the Spartans, and to Delos, and Myndos, and Sicyon, and Caria, and Samos, and Pamphylia, and Lycia, and Halicarnassus, and Cos, and Side, and Aradus, and Rhodes, and Phaselis, and Gortyna, and Gnidus, and Cyprus, and Cyrene
    24: Moreover, they wrote a copy of these things to Simon, the leader of the priests and the people of the Jews
    25: But king Antiochus positioned his camp near Dora a second time, moving his hand against it continually, and making machines of war. And he enclosed Trypho, lest he escape
    26: And Simon sent two thousand chosen men to him as auxiliaries, and silver, and gold, and an abundance of equipment
    27: And he was not willing to receive them, but he broke all of the pact that he made with him before, and he alienated himself from him
    28: And he sent to him Athenobius, one of his friends, to deal with him, saying: “You hold Joppa and Gazara, and the stronghold that is in Jerusalem, which are cities of my kingdom
    29: You have desolated their parts, and you have caused a great scourging in the land, and you have become ruler throughout many places in my kingdom
    30: Now, therefore, hand over the cities that you occupy, and the tributes of the places where you have become ruler beyond the borders of Judea
    31: But if not, give me for them five hundred talents of silver, and for the destruction that you have caused, and for the tributes of the cities, another five hundred talents. But if not, we will come and fight against you.
    32: So Athenobius, the friend of the king, came to Jerusalem and saw the glory of Simon, and his splendor in gold and silver, and his abundance of equipment, and he was astonished. And he repeated the words of the king to him
    33: And Simon responded to him, and he said to him: “We have not taken foreign land, nor do we hold anything foreign, but we hold the inheritance of our fathers, which was for some time unjustly possessed by our enemies
    34: In truth, since we have the opportunity, we claim the inheritance of our fathers
    35: And as to Joppa and Gazara, which you demand, they brought a great scourging on the people and our country. For these, we will give one hundred talents.” And Athenobius did not respond a word to him
    36: But, returning with anger to the king, he reported to him these words, and the glory of Simon, and all that he had seen. And the king became angry with a great anger
    37: But Trypho fled by ship to Orthosia
    38: And the king appointed Cendebeus as commander of the seacoast, and he gave him an army of foot soldiers and horsemen
    39: And he commanded him to move with his camp against the face of Judea. And he commanded him to build up Kedron, and to barricade the gates of the city, and to make war against the people. But the king pursued Trypho
    40: And Cendebeus passed through to Jamnia, and he began to provoke the populace, and to trample Judea, and to take the people captive, and to execute, and to build up Kedron
    41: And he stationed horsemen and an army there, so that they could go out and travel through the ways of Judea, as the king appointed him to do

  Chapter 16.

    1: And so, John came up from Gazara, and he reported to Simon, his father, what Cendebeus had done against their people
    2: And Simon called his two eldest sons, Judas and John, and he said to them: “I and my brothers, and my father’s house, have fought against the enemies of Israel from our youth, even to this day. And this work has prospered in our hands, so that we have delivered Israel several times
    3: And now that I am old, you must act in place of me and my brothers, and go out to fight for our nation. Truly, may the help of heaven be with you.
    4: Then he chose from the region twenty thousand men of warfare, and horsemen; and they started out toward Cendebeus. And they rested in Modin
    5: And they rose up in the morning and went out into the plains. And behold, an abundant army of foot soldiers and horsemen was there to meet them, and there was a river flowing between them
    6: And he and his people moved their camp opposite their face, and he saw the trepidation of the people to cross over the river, and so he crossed over first. And seeing him, the men also crossed after him
    7: And he divided the people and the horsemen into the midst of the foot soldiers. But the horsemen of the adversary were exceedingly numerous
    8: And they sounded the holy trumpets. And Cendebeus and his army were turned back. And many of them fell wounded. But the rest fled into the fortress
    9: Then Judas, the brother of John, was wounded. But John pursued them, until he came to Kedron, which he had built
    10: And they fled all the way to the towers that were in the fields of Azotus, and he burnt them with fire. And there fell of them two thousand men, and he returned to Judea in peace
    11: Now Ptolemy, the son of Abubus, was appointed commander over the plain of Jericho, and he held much silver and gold
    12: For he was the son-in-law of the high priest
    13: And his heart was exalted, and he wanted to obtain the region, and he devised treachery against Simon and his sons, so as to destroy them
    14: Now when Simon was traveling through the cities that were in the region of Judea, and acting with concern for them, he went down to Jericho, he and Mattathias and Judas, his sons, in the one hundred and seventy-seventh year, in the eleventh month; this is the month of Shevat
    15: And the son of Abubus received them, with deceitfulness, into a little fortress, which is called Dok, that he had built. And he made them a great feast, and he hid men there
    16: And when Simon and his sons became inebriated, Ptolemy and his men rose up, and took their weapons, and entered into the gathering. And they killed him, and his two sons, and some of his servants
    17: And he committed a great treachery in Israel, and he repaid good with evil
    18: And Ptolemy wrote about these things, and he sent to the king, so that he would send him an army to assist him, and he could deliver to him the region, and their cities and tributes
    19: And he sent others to Gazara to destroy John. And he sent letters to the tribunes to come to him, and he would give them silver, and gold, and gifts
    20: And he sent others to occupy Jerusalem and the mountain of the temple
    21: Now a certain one, running ahead, reported to John in Gazara, that his father and his brothers perished, and that “he sent to kill you also.
    22: But when he heard it, he was very afraid, and he apprehended the men who came to destroy him, and he killed them. For he knew that they sought to destroy him
    23: And the rest of the stories about John, and his wars, and the virtuous deeds that he performed with fortitude, and the building of the walls that he raised, and the things that he did
    24: behold, these have been written in the book of the days of his priesthood, from the time that he became high priest, after his father

End of day 279.