Day 327:

Reading Galatians, chapters ['5', '6']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Stand firm, and do not be willing to be again held by the yoke of servitude
    2: Behold, I, Paul, say to you, that if you have been circumcised, Christ will be of no benefit to you
    3: For I again testify, about every man circumcising himself, that he is obligated to act according to the entire law
    4: You are being emptied of Christ, you who are being justified by the law. You have fallen from grace
    5: For in spirit, by faith, we await the hope of justice
    6: For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision prevails over anything, but only faith which works through charity
    7: You have run well. So what has impeded you, that you would not obey the truth
    8: This kind of influence is not from him who is calling you
    9: A little leaven corrupts the whole mass
    10: I have confidence in you, in the Lord, that you will accept nothing of the kind. However, he who disturbs you shall bear the judgment, whomever he may be
    11: And as for me, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still suffering persecution? For then the scandal of the Cross would be made empty
    12: And I wish that those who disturb you would be torn away
    13: For you, brothers, have been called to liberty. Only you must not make liberty into an occasion for the flesh, but instead, serve one another through the charity of the Spirit
    14: For the entire law is fulfilled by one word: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
    15: But if you bite and devour one another, be careful that you are not consumed by one another
    16: So then, I say: Walk in the spirit, and you will not fulfill the desires of the flesh
    17: For the flesh desires against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And since these are against one another, you may not do whatever you want
    18: But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law
    19: Now the works of the flesh are manifest; they are: fornication, lust, homosexuality, self-indulgence
    20: the serving of idols, drug use, hostility, contentiousness, jealousy, wrath, quarrels, dissensions, divisions
    21: envy, murder, inebriation, carousing, and similar things. About these things, I continue to preach to you, as I have preached to you: that those who act in this way shall not obtain the kingdom of God
    22: But the fruit of the Spirit is charity, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, forbearance
    23: meekness, faith, modesty, abstinence, chastity. There is no law against such things
    24: For those who are Christ’s have crucified their flesh, along with its vices and desires
    25: If we live by the Spirit, we should also walk by the Spirit
    26: Let us not become desirous of empty glory, provoking one another, envying one another

  Chapter 6.

    1: And, brothers, if a man has been overtaken by any offense, you who are spiritual should instruct someone like this with a spirit of leniency, considering that you yourselves might also be tempted
    2: Carry one another’s burdens, and so shall you fulfill the law of Christ
    3: For if anyone considers himself to be something, though he may be nothing, he deceives himself
    4: So let each one prove his own work. And in this way, he shall have glory in himself only, and not in another
    5: For each one shall carry his own burden
    6: And let him who is being taught the Word discuss it with him who is teaching it to him, in every good way
    7: Do not choose to wander astray. God is not to be ridiculed
    8: For whatever a man will have sown, that also shall he reap. For whoever sows in his flesh, from the flesh he shall also reap corruption. But whoever sows in the Spirit, from the Spirit he shall reap eternal life
    9: And so, let us not be deficient in doing good. For in due time, we shall reap without fail
    10: Therefore, while we have time, we should do good works toward everyone, and most of all toward those who are of the household of the faith
    11: Consider what kind of letters I have written to you with my own hand
    12: For as many of you as they desire to please in the flesh, they compel to be circumcised, but only so that they might not suffer the persecution of the cross of Christ
    13: And yet, neither do they themselves, who are circumcised, keep the law. Instead, they want you to be circumcised, so that they may glory in your flesh
    14: But far be it from me to glory, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world
    15: For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision prevails in any way, but instead there is a new creature
    16: And whoever follows this rule: may peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God
    17: Concerning other matters, let no one trouble me. For I carry the stigmata of the Lord Jesus in my body
    18: May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen

End of day 327.