Day 257:

Reading Hosea, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Do not choose to rejoice, Israel; do not celebrate as the crowds do. For you have been committing fornication against your God; you have loved a prize upon every threshing floor of wheat
    2: The threshing floor and the oil press will not feed them, and the wine will deceive them
    3: They will not dwell in the land of the Lord. Ephraim has been returned to Egypt, and he has eaten polluted things among the Assyrians
    4: They will not offer a libation of wine to the Lord, and they will not please him. Their sacrifices will be like the bread of mourners. All those who eat it will be defiled. For their bread is of their soul; it will not enter into the house of the Lord
    5: What will you do on the solemn day, on the day of the feast of the Lord
    6: For, behold, they have been sent away by devastation. Egypt will gather them together; Memphis will bury them. Nettles will inherit their desired silver; the burr will be in their tabernacles
    7: The days of visitation have arrived; the days of retribution are here. Know this, Israel: that the prophet was foolish, the spiritual man was mad, because of the multitude of your iniquities and the great extent of your foolishness
    8: The watcher of Ephraim was with my God. The prophet has become a snare of ruin over all his ways; insanity is in the house of his God
    9: They have sinned profoundly, just as in the days of Gibeah. He will remember their iniquity, and he will repay their sin
    10: I discovered Israel like grapes in the desert. Like the first fruits of the fig tree, I saw their fathers on the end of its branches. But they went in to Baal-peor, and they have been estranged by intermingling, and they have became abominable, just like the things that they chose to love
    11: Ephraim has chased away their glory like a bird: from birth, and from the womb, and from conception
    12: And even if they should nurture their sons, I will make them without children among men. Yes, and woe to them, when I have withdrawn from them
    13: Ephraim, as I see it, was a Tyre, founded by beauty. And Ephraim will lead his sons to execution
    14: Give them, O Lord. What will you give them? Give them a womb without children, and dry breasts
    15: All their wickedness is in Gilgal, for I held them there, in their hatred. Because of the malice of their inventions, I will expel them from my house. I will no longer say that I love them; all their leaders have retreated
    16: Ephraim has been struck; their root has been dried out: by no means will they yield fruit. And even if they should conceive, I will execute the most beloved of their womb
    17: My God will cast them aside because they have not listened to him; and they will be wanderers among the nations

  Chapter 10.

    1: Israel is a leafy vine, its fruit has been suitable to him. According to the multitude of his fruit, he has multiplied altars; according to the fertility of his land, he has abounded with graven images
    2: His heart has been divided, so now they will cross the divide. He will break apart their images; he will plunder their sanctuaries
    3: For now they will say, “We have no king. For we do not fear the Lord. And what would a king do for us?
    4: You speak words about a useless vision, and you will strike a deal. And judgment will spring up like bitterness in the furrows of the field
    5: The inhabitants of Samaria have worshipped the calf of Bethaven. For the keepers of its temple, who had exulted over it in its glory, and its people, have mourned over it because it migrated from there
    6: If, indeed, it also has been offered to Assur, as a gift for the Avenging king, confusion will seize Ephraim, and Israel will be confounded by his own will
    7: Samaria has required her king to pass by, like foam on the face of the water
    8: And the heights of the idol, the sin of Israel, will be utterly destroyed. The burr and the thistle will rise up over their altars. And they will say to the mountains, ‘Cover us,’ and to the hills, ‘Fall on us.
    9: From the days of Gibeah, Israel has sinned; in this, they remained firm. The battle in Gibeah against the sons of iniquity will not take hold of them
    10: According to my desire, I will correct them. And the peoples will be gathered together over them, while they are chastised for their two iniquities
    11: Ephraim is a heifer that has been taught to love treading out the grain, but I passed over the beauty of her neck. I will rise over Ephraim. Judah will plough; Jacob will break up the soil for himself
    12: Sow for yourselves in justice, and harvest in the mouth of mercy; renew your fallow land. But the time when you will seek the Lord is the time when he will arrive who will teach you justice
    13: You have ploughed impiety; you have harvested iniquity; you have eaten the fruit of lies. For you had confidence in your ways, in the multitude of your good fortunes
    14: A tumult will arise among your people. And all your fortifications will be laid waste, just as Salman was destroyed by the house of him that judged Baal on the day of the battle, the mother having been crushed against her sons
    15: So has Bethel done to you, before the face of your malicious wickedness

  Chapter 11.

    1: Just as the morning passes, so has the king of Israel passed by. For Israel was a child and I loved him; and out of Egypt I called my son
    2: They called them, and so they departed before their face. They offered victims to the Baals, and they sacrificed to graven images
    3: And I was like a foster father to Ephraim. I carried them in my arms. And they did not know that I healed them
    4: I will draw them with the cords of Adam, with the bands of love. And I will be to them like one who raises the yoke over their jaws. And I will reach down to him so that he may eat
    5: He will not return to the land of Egypt, but Assur himself will be the king over him, because they were not willing to be converted
    6: The sword has begun in his cities, and it will consume his elect and devour their heads
    7: And my people will long for my return. But a yoke will be imposed on them together, which will not be taken away
    8: How will I provide for you, Ephraim; how will I protect you, Israel? How will I provide for you as for Adam; will I set you like Zeboiim? My heart has changed within me; together with my regret, it has been stirred up
    9: I will not act on the fury of my wrath. I will not turn back to utterly destroy Ephraim. For I am God, and not man, the Divine in your midst, and I will not advance upon the city
    10: They will walk after the Lord; he will roar like a lion. For he himself will roar, and the sons of the sea will dread
    11: And they will fly like a bird out of Egypt, and like a dove from the land of the Assyrians. And I will arrange them in their own houses, says the Lord
    12: Ephraim has besieged me with denials, and the house of Israel with deceit. But Judah went down as a witness before God and the holy ones of faith

  Chapter 12.

    1: Ephraim feeds on wind and follows burning heat; all day long he multiplies lies and desolation. And he has entered into a pact with the Assyrians, and he has carried oil into Egypt
    2: Therefore, the judgment of the Lord is with Judah and a visitation is upon Jacob. He will repay him according to his ways and according to his inventions
    3: In the womb, he supplanted his brother; for in his good fortune, he had been guided by an angel
    4: And he prevailed over an angel, for he had been strengthened. He wept and petitioned him. He found him in Bethel, and there he has spoken to us
    5: And the Lord God of hosts, the Lord is his memorial
    6: And so, you should convert to your God. Keep mercy and judgment, and have hope in your God always
    7: Canaan, in his hand is a deceitful balance, he has chosen false accusations
    8: And Ephraim has said, “Nevertheless, I have become rich; I have found an idol for myself. All of my labors will not reveal to me the iniquity that I have committed.
    9: And I, the Lord your God from the land of Egypt, nevertheless will cause you to dwell in tabernacles, just as during the days of the feast
    10: And I have spoken through the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and I have used parables through the hands of the prophets
    11: If Gilead is an idol, then they have been sacrificing cattle in Gilgal to no purpose. For even their altars are like clutter on the soil of the field
    12: Jacob fled into the region of Syria, and Israel served like a wife, and was served by a wife
    13: Yet by a prophet the Lord led Israel out of Egypt, and he was served by a prophet
    14: Ephraim has provoked me to wrath with his bitterness, and his blood will overcome him, and his Lord will requite him for his shamefulness

End of day 257.