Day 181:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['29', '30', '31']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: The man who, with a stiff neck, treats the one who corrects him with contempt will be suddenly overwhelmed to his own destruction, and reason shall not follow him
    2: When just men are multiplied, the common people shall rejoice. When the impious take up the leadership, the people shall mourn
    3: The man who loves wisdom rejoices his father. But whoever nurtures promiscuous women will lose his substance
    4: A just king guides the land. A man of avarice will destroy it
    5: A man who speaks to his friend with flattering and feigned words spreads a net for his own feet
    6: A snare will entangle the iniquitous when he sins. And the just shall praise and be glad
    7: The just knows the case of the poor. The impious is ignorant of knowledge
    8: Pestilent men squander a city. Yet truly, the wise avert fury
    9: A wise man, if he were to contend with the foolish, whether in anger or in laughter, would find no rest
    10: Bloodthirsty men hate the simple one; but the just seek out his soul
    11: A foolish one offers everything on his mind. A wise one reserves and defers until later
    12: A leader who freely listens to lying words has only impious servants
    13: The pauper and the creditor have met one another. The Lord is the illuminator of them both
    14: The king who judges the poor in truth, his throne shall be secured in eternity
    15: The rod and its correction distribute wisdom. But the child who is left to his own will, brings shame to his mother
    16: When the impious are multiplied, crimes will be multiplied. But the just shall see their ruin
    17: Teach your son, and he will refresh you, and he will give delight to your soul
    18: When prophecy fails, the people will be scattered. Yet truly, whoever guards the law is blessed
    19: A servant cannot be taught by words, because he understands what you say, but he disdains to respond
    20: Have you seen a man rushing to speak? Foolishness has more hope than his correction
    21: Whoever nurtures his servant delicately from childhood, afterwards will find him defiant
    22: A short-tempered man provokes quarrels. And whoever is easily angered is more likely to sin
    23: Humiliation follows the arrogant. And glory shall uphold the humble in spirit
    24: Whoever participates with a thief hates his own soul; for he listens to his oath and does not denounce him
    25: Whoever fears man will quickly fall. Whoever hopes in the Lord shall be lifted up
    26: Many demand the face of the leader. But the judgment of each one proceeds from the Lord
    27: The just abhor an impious man. And the impious abhor those who are on the right way. By keeping the word, the son shall be free from perdition

  Chapter 30.

    1: The words of the Gatherer, the son of the Vomiter. The vision that the man spoke. God is with him, and he, being strengthened by God and abiding with him, said
    2: “I am the most foolish among men, and the wisdom of men is not with me
    3: I have not learned wisdom, and I have not known the knowledge of sanctity
    4: Who has ascended to heaven and also descended? Who has grasped the wind in his hands? Who has tied the waters together, as with a garment? Who has raised all the limits of the earth? What is his name, and what is the name of his son, if you know
    5: Every word of God is fire-tested. He is a bronze shield to those who hope in him
    6: Do not add anything to his words, lest you be reproved and be discovered to be a liar
    7: Two things I have asked of you; do not deny them to me before I die
    8: Remove, far from me, vanity and lying words. Give me neither begging, nor wealth. Apportion to me only the necessities of my life
    9: lest perhaps, being filled, I might be enticed into denial, and say: ‘Who is the Lord?’ Or, being compelled by destitution, I might steal, and then perjure myself in the name of my God
    10: Do not accuse a servant to his lord, lest he curse you, and you fall
    11: There is a generation which curses their father, and which does not bless their mother
    12: There is a generation which seems pure to themselves, and yet they are not even washed from their filthiness
    13: There is a generation, whose eyes have been elevated, and their eyelids are lifted on high
    14: There is a generation which has swords in place of teeth, and which commands their molars to devour the indigent from the earth and the poor from among men
    15: The leech has two daughters, who say, ‘Bring, bring.’ Three things are insatiable, and a fourth never says ‘Enough’
    16: Hell, and the mouth of the womb, and a land that is not filled with water. And truly, fire never says, ‘Enough.
    17: The eye of one who mocks his father and who despises the childbearing of his mother, let the ravens of the torrent tear it out, and let the sons of the eagles consume it
    18: Three things are difficult for me, and about a fourth, I am nearly ignorant
    19: the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship in the middle of the sea, and the way of a man in adolescence
    20: Such is the way also of an adulterous woman, who eats, and wiping her mouth, says: “I have done no evil.
    21: By three things, the earth is moved, and a fourth it is not able to sustain
    22: by a slave when he reigns, by the foolish when he has been filled with food
    23: by a hateful woman when she has been taken in matrimony, and by a handmaid when she has been heir to her mistress
    24: Four things are least upon the earth, and they are wiser than the wise
    25: the ants, an infirm people who provide food for themselves at the harvest
    26: the rabbit, a sickened people who make their bed upon the rock
    27: The locust has no king, but they all depart by their troops
    28: The lizard supports itself on hands and dwells in the buildings of kings
    29: There are three things that advance well, and a fourth that marches happily on
    30: a lion, the strongest of beasts, who fears nothing that he meets
    31: a rooster prepared at the loins, likewise a ram, and a king, whom none can resist
    32: There is one who has appeared foolish, after he was lifted up on high; for if he had understood, he would have placed his hand over his mouth
    33: But whoever strongly squeezes the udder to bring out the milk, presses out butter. And whoever violently blows his nose, brings out blood. And whoever provokes wrath, brings forth discord.

  Chapter 31.

    1: The words of king Lamuel. The vision by which his mother instructed him
    2: “What, O my beloved? What, O beloved of my womb? What, O beloved of my vows
    3: Do not give your substance to women, or your riches to overthrow kings
    4: Not to kings, O Lamuel, not to kings give wine. For there are no secrets where drunkenness reigns
    5: And perhaps they may drink and forget judgments, and alter the case of the sons of the poor
    6: Give strong drink to the grieving, and wine to those who are bitter in soul
    7: Let them drink, and forget their needs, and remember their sorrow no more
    8: Open your mouth for the mute and for all the cases of the sons who are passing through
    9: Open your mouth, declare what is just, and do justice to the indigent and the poor
    10: Who shall find a strong woman? Far away, and from the furthest parts, is her price
    11: The heart of her husband confides in her, and he will not be deprived of spoils
    12: She will repay him with good, and not evil, all the days of her life
    13: She has sought wool and flax, and she has worked these by the counsel of her hands
    14: She has become like a merchant’s ship, bringing her bread from far away
    15: And she has risen in the night, and given a prey to her household, and provisions to her maids
    16: She has considered a field and bought it. From the fruit of her own hands, she has planted a vineyard
    17: She has wrapped her waist with fortitude, and she has strengthened her arm
    18: She has tasted and seen that her tasks are good; her lamp shall not be extinguished at night
    19: She has put her hand to strong things, and her fingers have taken hold of the spindle
    20: She has opened her hand to the needy, and she has extended her hands to the poor
    21: She shall not fear, in the cold of snow, for her household. For all those of her household have been clothed two-fold
    22: She has made embroidered clothing for herself. Fine linen and purple is her garment
    23: Her husband is noble at the gates, when he sits among the senators of the land
    24: She has made finely woven cloth and sold it, and she has delivered a waistband to the Canaanite
    25: Strength and elegance are her clothing, and she will laugh in the final days
    26: She has opened her mouth to wisdom, and the law of clemency is on her tongue
    27: She has considered the paths of her household, and she has not eaten her bread in idleness
    28: Her sons rose up and predicted great happiness; her husband rose up and praised her
    29: Many daughters have gathered together riches; you have surpassed them all
    30: Charm is false, and beauty is vain. The woman who fears the Lord, the same shall be praised
    31: Give to her from the fruit of her own hands. And let her works praise her at the gates

End of day 181.