Day 323:

Reading 2-Corinthians, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: For we know that, when our earthly house of this habitation is dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in heaven
    2: And for this reason also, we groan, desiring to be clothed from above with our habitation from heaven
    3: If we are so clothed, then we will not be found to be naked
    4: Then too, we who are in this tabernacle groan under the burden, because we do not want to be stripped, but rather to be clothed from above, so that what is mortal may be absorbed by life
    5: Now the One who accomplishes this very thing in us is God, who has given us the pledge of the Spirit
    6: Therefore, we are ever confident, knowing that, while we are in the body, we are on a pilgrimage in the Lord
    7: For we walk by means of faith, and not by sight
    8: So we are confident, and we have the good will to be on a pilgrimage in the body, so as to be present to the Lord.
    9: And thus we struggle, whether absent or present, to please him
    10: For it is necessary for us to be manifested before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive the proper things of the body, according to his behavior, whether it was good or evil
    11: Therefore, having knowledge of the fear of the Lord, we appeal to men, but we are made manifest before God. Yet I hope, too, that we may be made manifest in your consciences
    12: We are not commending ourselves again to you, but rather we are presenting you with an opportunity to glory because of us, when you deal with those who glory in face, and not in heart
    13: For if we are excessive in mind, it is for God; but if we are sober, it is for you
    14: For the charity of Christ urges us on, in consideration of this: that if one died for all, then all have died
    15: And Christ died for all, so that even those who live might not now live for themselves, but for him who died for them and who rose again
    16: And so, from now on, we know no one according to the flesh. And though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know him in this way no longer
    17: So if anyone is a new creature in Christ, what is old has passed away. Behold, all things have been made new
    18: But all is of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Christ, and who has given us the ministry of reconciliation
    19: For certainly God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not charging them with their sins. And he has placed in us the Word of reconciliation
    20: Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, so that God is exhorting through us. We beseech you for Christ: be reconciled to God
    21: For God made him who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that we might become the justice of God in him

  Chapter 6.

    1: But, as a help to you, we exhort you not to receive the grace of God in vain
    2: For he says: “In a favorable time, I heeded you; and on the day of salvation, I helped you.” Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation
    3: May we never give offense to anyone, so that our ministry may not be disparaged
    4: But in all things, let us exhibit ourselves as ministers of God with great patience: through tribulation, difficulties, and distress
    5: despite wounds, imprisonment, and rebellion; with hard work, vigilance, and fasting
    6: by chastity, knowledge, and longsuffering; in pleasantness, in the Holy Spirit, and in unfeigned charity
    7: with the Word of truth, with the power of God, and with the armor of justice to the right and to the left
    8: through honor and dishonor, despite good reports and bad, whether seen as deceivers or truth-tellers, whether ignored or acknowledged
    9: as if dying and yet truly alive; as if chastised and yet not subdued
    10: as if sorrowful and yet always rejoicing; as if needy and yet enriching many; as if having nothing and possessing everything
    11: Our mouth is open to you, O Corinthians; our heart is enlarged
    12: You are not narrowed by us, but it is by your own inner selves that you are narrowed
    13: But since we have the same recompense, (I am speaking as if to my own sons), you, too, should be enlarged
    14: Do not choose to bear the yoke with unbelievers. For how can justice be a participant with iniquity? Or how can the fellowship of light be a participant with darkness
    15: And how can Christ join together with Belial? Or what part do the faithful have with the unfaithful
    16: And what consensus does the temple of God have with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, just as God says: “I will dwell with them, and I will walk among them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people
    17: Because of this, you must depart from their midst and be separate, says the Lord. And do not touch what is unclean
    18: Then I will accept you. And I will be a Father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.

  Chapter 7.

    1: Therefore, having these promises, most beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of the flesh and of the spirit, perfecting sanctification in the fear of God
    2: Consider us. We have injured no one; we have corrupted no one; we have defrauded no one
    3: I am not saying this to your condemnation. For we have told you before that you are in our hearts: to die together and to live together
    4: Great is my confidence in you. Great is my glorying over you. I have been filled with consolation. I have a superabundant joy throughout all our tribulation
    5: Then, too, when we had arrived in Macedonia, our flesh had no rest. Instead, we suffered every tribulation: exterior conflicts, interior fears
    6: But God, who consoles the humble, consoled us by the arrival of Titus
    7: and not only by his arrival, but also by the consolation with which he was consoled among you. For he brought to us your desire, your weeping, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced all the more
    8: For though I made you sorrowful by my epistle, I do not repent. And if I did repent, but only for a time, having realized that the same epistle made you sorrowful
    9: now I am glad: not because you were sorrowful, but because you were sorrowful unto repentance. For you became sorrowful for God, so that you might not suffer any harm from us
    10: For the sorrow that is according to God accomplishes a repentance which is steadfast unto salvation. But the sorrow that is of the world accomplishes death
    11: So consider this same idea, being sorrowful according to God, and what great solicitude it accomplishes in you: including protection, and indignation, and fear, and desire, and zeal, and vindication. In all things, you have shown yourselves to be uncorrupted by this sorrow
    12: And so, though I wrote to you, it was not because of him who caused the injury, nor because of him who suffered from it, but so as to manifest our solicitude, which we have for you before God
    13: Therefore, we have been consoled. But in our consolation, we have rejoiced even more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by all of you
    14: And if I have gloried in anything to him about you, I have not been put to shame. But, just as we have spoken all things to you in truth, so also our glorying before Titus has been the truth
    15: And his feelings are now more abundant toward you, since he remembers the obedience of you all, and how you received him with fear and trembling
    16: I rejoice that in all things I have confidence in you

  Chapter 8.

    1: And so we are making known to you, brothers, the grace of God that has been given in the churches of Macedonia
    2: For within a great experience of tribulation, they have had an abundance of joy, and their profound poverty has only increased the richness of their simplicity
    3: And I bear witness to them, that they were willing to accept what was in accord with their ability, and even what was beyond their ability
    4: For they were begging us, with great exhortation, for the grace and the communication of the ministry that is with the saints
    5: And this is beyond what we had hoped, since they gave themselves, first of all to the Lord, and then also to us, through the will of God
    6: so much so that we petitioned Titus, that in the same manner as he had begun, he would also complete in you this same grace
    7: But, just as in all things you abound in faith and in word and in knowledge and in all solicitude, and even more so in your charity toward us, so also may you abound in this grace
    8: I am speaking, not commanding. But through the solicitude of others, I approve of the good character of your charity
    9: For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, he became poor for your sakes, so that through his poverty, you might become rich
    10: And about this, I give my counsel. For this is useful to those of you who, only a year earlier, had just begun to act, or even to be willing to act
    11: So, truly now, accomplish this in deed, so that, in the same manner as your willing mind is prompted, you may also act, out of that which you have
    12: For when the will is prompted, it receives according to what that person has, not according to what that person does not have
    13: And it is not that others should be relieved, while you are troubled, but that there should be an equality
    14: In this present time, let your abundance supply their need, so that their abundance may also supply your need, in order that there may be an equality, just as it was written
    15: “He with more did not have too much; and he with less did not have too little.
    16: But thanks be to God, who has granted to the heart of Titus, this same solicitude for you
    17: For certainly, he accepted the exhortation. But since he was more solicitous, he went to you of his own free will
    18: And we have even sent with him a brother whose praise accompanies the Gospel throughout all the churches
    19: And not only that, but he was also chosen by the churches to be a companion for our sojourn in this grace, which is ministered by us with our determined will, to the glory of the Lord
    20: So let us avoid this, lest anyone disparage us over the abundance that is ministered by us
    21: For we provide for what is good, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of men
    22: And we have also sent with them our brother, whom we have proven to be frequently solicitous in many matters. But now there is a greater solicitousness, which is greatly entrusted to you
    23: and whether it concerns Titus, who is a companion to me and a helper to you, or whether it concerns our brothers, the Apostles of the churches, it is to the glory of Christ
    24: Therefore, in the sight of the churches, show them the proof of your charity and of our glorying about you

End of day 323.