Day 271:

Reading Zechariah, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: In the eighth month, in the second year of king Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying
    2: The Lord has become angry over the resentful anger of your fathers
    3: And you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Turn to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will turn to you, says the Lord of hosts
    4: Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, saying: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Turn from your evil ways and from your wicked thoughts. But they did not heed, and neither did they pay attention to me, says the Lord
    5: Your fathers, where are they? And will the prophets live unceasingly
    6: Yet truly my words and my lawfulness, which I entrusted to my servants the prophets, were indeed comprehended by your fathers, and so they were converted, and they said: Just as the Lord of hosts decided to do to us, according to our ways and according to our inventions, so has he done to us
    7: On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is called Shevat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying
    8: I saw by night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees, which were in the chasm. And behind him were horses: red, speckled, and white
    9: And I said, “What are these, my lord?” And the angel, who was speaking with me, said to me, “I will reveal to you what these are.
    10: And the man that stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, “These are they, whom the Lord has sent in order to walk through the earth.
    11: And those who stood among the myrtle trees answered the angel of the Lord, and they said, “We have walked through the earth, and behold, all the earth is inhabited and is at rest.
    12: And the angel of the Lord answered and said, “Lord of hosts, how long will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, with which you have been angry? This is now the seventieth year.
    13: And the Lord answered the angel, who had been speaking with me, good words, consoling words
    14: And the angel, who was speaking with me, said to me: Cry out, saying: Thus says the Lord of hosts: I have been zealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great zeal
    15: And, with a great anger, I am angry with the wealthy nations. Though I had been angry a little, truly they advanced further in evil
    16: Because of this, thus says the Lord: I will be turned back, towards Jerusalem, with mercies; and my house will be built upon this, says the Lord of hosts. And the building line will be extended over Jerusalem
    17: Until then, cry out saying: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Until then, my cities will flow with good things, and, until then, the Lord will comfort Zion, and, until then, he will single out Jerusalem
    18: And I lifted up my eyes, and I saw. And behold: four horns
    19: And I said to the angel, who was speaking with me, “What are these?” And he said to me, “These are the horns that have winnowed Judah and Israel and Jerusalem.
    20: And the Lord showed me four workmen
    21: And I said, “What have these come to do?” He spoke, saying, “These are the horns that have winnowed Judah, through every single man, and none of them lifted up his head. And these have come to frighten them away, so as to cast down the horns of the Gentiles, which have lifted up a horn over the land of Judah, so as to scatter it.

  Chapter 2.

    1: And I lifted up my eyes, and I saw, and behold, a man, and in his hand was a measuring line
    2: And I said, “Where are you going?” And he said to me, “To measure Jerusalem, so that I may see how great its width and how great its length may be.
    3: And behold, the angel, who had been speaking with me, departed, and another angel went out to meet him
    4: And he said to him: Hurry, speak to this young man, saying: Jerusalem will be inhabited without walls, because of the multitude of men and beasts of burden in its midst
    5: And I will be to it, says the Lord, a wall of fire all around. And in glory, I will be in its midst
    6: O, O flee from the land of the North, says the Lord, for I have scattered you into the four winds of heaven, says the Lord
    7: O Zion, flee, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon
    8: For thus says the Lord of hosts: After the glory, he has sent me to the Gentiles, which have despoiled you. For he who touches you, touches the pupil of my eye
    9: For behold, I lift up my hand over them, and they will be a prey to those who had served them. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me
    10: Sing praise and rejoice, daughter of Zion. For behold, I approach, and I will dwell in your midst, says the Lord
    11: And many nations will be joined to the Lord in that day, and they will be my people, and I will dwell in your midst. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you
    12: And the Lord will possess his portion, Judah, in the sanctified land, and still he will single out Jerusalem
    13: Let all flesh be silent before the face of the Lord: for he has arisen from his holy dwelling place

  Chapter 3.

    1: And the Lord revealed to me: Jesus the high priest, standing in the sight of the angel of the Lord. And Satan stood before his right hand, so as to be his adversary
    2: And the Lord said to Satan, “May the Lord rebuke you, Satan! And may the Lord, who chose Jerusalem, rebuke you! Are you not a firebrand plucked from the fire?
    3: And Jesus was clothed with filthy garments. And he stood before the face of an angel
    4: He answered and spoke to those who stood before him, saying, “Take away the filthy garments from him.” And he said to him, “Behold, I have taken away from you your iniquity, and I have clothed you with a change of clothing.
    5: And he said, “Place a clean diadem on his head.” And they placed a clean diadem on his head, and they clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord remained standing
    6: And the angel of the Lord contested with Jesus, saying
    7: Thus says the Lord of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, you likewise will judge my house and will keep my courts, and I will give you some of those who now attend here to walk with you
    8: Listen, Jesus the high priest, you and your friends, who dwell before you, who have been portending to men. For behold, I will lead my servant to the East
    9: For behold, the stone that I have bestowed before Jesus. Upon one stone, there are seven eyes. Behold, I will carve its engraving, says the Lord of hosts. And I will take away the iniquity of that land in one day
    10: On that day, says the Lord of hosts, every man will call his friend from under the vine and from under the fig tree

  Chapter 4.

    1: And the angel who had been speaking with me returned, and he awakened me, like a man who is awakened from his sleep
    2: And he said to me, “What do you see?” And I said, “I looked, and behold, a candlestick entirely in gold, and its lamp was at its top, and seven oil lamps of it were upon it, and there were seven funnels for the oil lamps that were at its top
    3: And there were two olive trees upon it: one to the right of the lamp, and one to its left.
    4: And I answered and spoke to the angel who was speaking with me, saying, “What are these, my lord?
    5: And the angel who was speaking with me answered, and he said to me, “Do you not know what these are?” And I said, “No, my lord.
    6: And he answered and spoke to me, saying: This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel, saying: Not by an army, nor by might, but in my spirit, says the Lord of hosts
    7: What are you, great mountain, in the sight of Zerubbabel? You are among the plains. And he will lead out the primary stone, and he will give equal grace to its grace
    8: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    9: The hand of Zerubbabel has founded this house, and his hands will complete it. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you
    10: For who has despised the little days? And they will rejoice and will see the silver and lead stone in the hand of Zerubbabel. These are the seven eyes of the Lord, which roam quickly through all the earth
    11: And I responded and said to him, “What are these two olive trees to the right of the candlestick, and to its left?
    12: And I responded a second time and said to him, “What are the two olive branches, which are next to the two golden ridges, in which are the pouring spouts of gold?
    13: And he spoke to me, saying, “Do you not know what these are?” And I said, “No, my lord.
    14: And he said, “These are the two sons of oil, who attend before the Sovereign of all the earth.

End of day 271.