Day 289:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And when they had drawn near to Jerusalem, and had arrived at Bethphage, at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples
    2: saying to them: “Go into the town that is opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Release them, and lead them to me
    3: And if anyone will have said anything to you, say that the Lord has need of them. And he will promptly dismiss them.
    4: Now all this was done in order to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet, saying
    5: “Tell the daughter of Zion: Behold, your king comes to you meekly, sitting on a donkey and on a colt, the son of one accustomed to the yoke.
    6: Then the disciples, going out, did just as Jesus instructed them
    7: And they brought the donkey and the colt, and they laid their garments on them, and they helped him sit upon them
    8: Then a very numerous crowd spread their garments on the way. But others cut branches from the trees and scattered them on the way
    9: And the crowds that preceded him, and those that followed, cried out, saying: “Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest!
    10: And when he had entered into Jerusalem, the entire city was stirred up, saying, “Who is this?
    11: But the people were saying, “This is Jesus, the Prophet from Nazareth of Galilee.
    12: And Jesus entered into the temple of God, and he cast out all who were selling and buying in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of the vendors of doves
    13: And he said to them: “It is written: ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer. But you have made it into a den of robbers.’ 
    14: And the blind and the lame drew near to him in the temple; and he healed them
    15: Then the leaders of the priests and the scribes became indignant, seeing the miracles that he wrought, and the children crying out in the temple, saying, “Hosanna to the Son of David!
    16: And they said to him, “Do you hear what these ones are saying?” But Jesus said to them, “Certainly. Have you never read: For out of the mouth of babes and infants, you have perfected praise?
    17: And leaving them behind, he went out, beyond the city, into Bethania, and he lodged here
    18: Then, as he was returning to the city in the morning, he was hungry
    19: And seeing a certain fig tree beside the way, he approached it. And he found nothing on it, except only leaves. And he said to it, “May fruit never spring forth from you, for all time.” And immediately the fig tree was dried up
    20: And seeing this, the disciples wondered, saying, “How did it dry up so quickly?
    21: And Jesus responded to them by saying: “Amen I say to you, if you have faith and do not hesitate, not only shall you do this, concerning the fig tree, but even if you would say to this mountain, ‘Take and cast yourself into the sea,’ it shall be done
    22: And all things whatsoever that you shall ask for in prayer: believing, you shall receive.
    23: And when he had arrived at the temple, as he was teaching, the leaders of the priests and the elders of the people approached him, saying: “By what authority do you do these things? And who has given this authority to you?
    24: In response, Jesus said to them: “I also will question you with one word: if you tell me this, I also will tell you by what authority I do these things
    25: The baptism of John, where was it from? Was it from heaven, or from men?” But they thought within themselves, saying
    26: “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say to us, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’ But if we say, ‘From men,’ we have the crowd to fear, for they all hold John to be a prophet.
    27: And so, they answered Jesus by saying, “We do not know.” So he also said to them: “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things
    28: But how does it seem to you? A certain man had two sons. And approaching the first, he said: ‘Son, go out today to work in my vineyard.
    29: And responding, he said, ‘I am not willing.’ But afterwards, being moved by repentance, he went
    30: And approaching the other, he spoke similarly. And answering, he said, ‘I am going, lord.’ And he did not go
    31: Which of the two did the will of the father?” They said to him, “The first.” Jesus said to them: “Amen I say to you, that tax collectors and prostitutes shall precede you, into the kingdom of God
    32: For John came to you in the way of justice, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. Yet even after seeing this, you did not repent, so as to believe him
    33: Listen to another parable. There was a man, the father of a family, who planted a vineyard, and surrounded it with a hedge, and dug a press in it, and built a tower. And he loaned it out to farmers, and he set out to sojourn abroad
    34: Then, when the time of the fruits drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers, so that they might receive its fruits
    35: And the farmers apprehended his servants; they struck one, and killed another, and stoned yet another
    36: Again, he sent other servants, more than before; and they treated them similarly
    37: Then, at the very end, he sent his son to them, saying: ‘They will revere my son.
    38: But the farmers, seeing the son, said among themselves: ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and then we will have his inheritance.
    39: And apprehending him, they cast him outside the vineyard, and they killed him
    40: Therefore, when the lord of the vineyard arrives, what will he do to those farmers?
    41: They said to him, “He will bring those evil men to an evil end, and he will loan out his vineyard to other farmers, who shall repay to him the fruit in its time.
    42: Jesus said to them: “Have you never read in the Scriptures: ‘The stone that the builders have rejected has become the cornerstone. By the Lord has this been done, and it is wonderful in our eyes?
    43: Therefore, I say to you, that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you, and it shall be given to a people who shall produce its fruits
    44: And whoever will have fallen on this stone shall be broken, yet truly, on whomever it shall fall, it will crush him.
    45: And when the leaders of the priests, and the Pharisees had heard his parables, they knew that he was speaking about them
    46: And though they sought to take hold of him, they feared the crowds, because they held him to be a prophet

  Chapter 22.

    1: And responding, Jesus again spoke to them in parables, saying
    2: “The kingdom of heaven is like a man who was king, who celebrated a wedding for his son
    3: And he sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding. But they were not willing to come
    4: Again, he sent other servants, saying, ‘Tell the invited: Behold, I have prepared my meal. My bulls and fatlings have been killed, and all is ready. Come to the wedding.
    5: But they ignored this and they went away: one to his country estate, and another to his business
    6: Yet truly, the rest took hold of his servants and, having treated them with contempt, killed them
    7: But when the king heard this, he was angry. And sending out his armies, he destroyed those murderers, and he burned their city
    8: Then he said to his servants: ‘The wedding, indeed, has been prepared. But those who were invited were not worthy
    9: Therefore, go out to the ways, and call whomever you will find to the wedding.
    10: And his servants, departing into the ways, gathered all those whom they found, bad and good, and the wedding was filled with guests
    11: Then the king entered to see the guests. And he saw a man there who was not clothed in a wedding garment
    12: And he said to him, ‘Friend, how is it that you have entered here without having a wedding garment?’ But he was dumbstruck
    13: Then the king said to the ministers: ‘Bind his hands and feet, and cast him into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth
    14: For many are called, but few are chosen.’ 
    15: Then the Pharisees, going out, took counsel as to how they might entrap him in speech
    16: And they sent their disciples to him, with the Herodians, saying: “Teacher, we know that you are truthful, and that you teach the way of God in truth, and that the influence of others is nothing to you. For you do not consider the reputation of men
    17: Therefore, tell us, how does it seem to you? Is it lawful to pay the census tax to Caesar, or not?
    18: But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said: “Why do you test me, you hypocrites
    19: Show me the coin of the census tax.” And they offered him a denarius
    20: And Jesus said to them, “Whose image is this, and whose inscription?
    21: They said to him, “Caesar’s.” Then he said to them, “Then render to Caesar what is of Caesar; and to God what is of God.
    22: And hearing this, they wondered. And having left him behind, they went away
    23: In that day, the Sadducees, who say there is to be no resurrection, approached him. And they questioned him
    24: saying: “Teacher, Moses said: If anyone will have died, having no son, his brother shall marry his wife, and he shall raise up offspring to his brother
    25: Now there were seven brothers with us. And the first, having taken a wife, died. And having no offspring, he left his wife to his brother
    26: similarly with the second, and the third, even to the seventh
    27: And last of all, the woman also passed away
    28: In the resurrection, then, whose wife of the seven will she be? For they all had her.
    29: But Jesus responded to them by saying: “You have gone astray by knowing neither the Scriptures, nor the power of God
    30: For in the resurrection, they shall neither marry, nor be given in marriage. Instead, they shall be like the Angels of God in heaven
    31: But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken by God, saying to you
    32: ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?’ He is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
    33: And when the crowds heard this, they wondered at his doctrine
    34: But the Pharisees, hearing that he had caused the Sadducees to be silent, came together as one
    35: And one of them, a doctor of the law, questioned him, to test him
    36: “Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?
    37: Jesus said to him: “ ‘You shall love the Lord your God from all your heart, and with all your soul and with all your mind.
    38: This is the greatest and first commandment
    39: But the second is similar to it: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
    40: On these two commandments the entire law depends, and also the prophets.
    41: Then, when the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus questioned them
    42: saying: “What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?” They said to him, “David’s.
    43: He said to them: “Then how can David, in the Spirit, call him Lord, saying
    44: ‘The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool?
    45: So then, if David calls him Lord, how can he be his son?
    46: And no one was able to respond to him a word. And neither did anyone dare, from that day forward, to question him

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then Jesus spoke to the crowds, and to his disciples
    2: saying: “The scribes and the Pharisees have sat down in the chair of Moses
    3: Therefore, all things whatsoever that they shall say to you, observe and do. Yet truly, do not choose to act according to their works. For they say, but they do not do
    4: For they bind up heavy and unbearable burdens, and they impose them on men’s shoulders. But they are not willing to move them with even a finger of their own
    5: Truly, they do all their works so that they may be seen by men. For they enlarge their phylacteries and glorify their hems
    6: And they love the first places at feasts, and the first chairs in the synagogues
    7: and greetings in the marketplace, and to be called Master by men
    8: But you must not be called Master. For One is your Master, and you are all brothers
    9: And do not choose to call anyone on earth your father. For One is your Father, who is in heaven
    10: Neither should you be called teachers. For One is your Teacher, the Christ
    11: Whoever is greater among you shall be your minister
    12: But whoever has exalted himself, shall be humbled. And whoever has humbled himself, shall be exalted
    13: So then: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you close the kingdom of heaven before men. For you yourselves do not enter, and those who are entering, you would not permit to enter
    14: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you consume the houses of widows, praying long prayers. Because of this, you shall receive the greater judgment
    15: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you travel around by sea and by land, in order to make one convert. And when he has been converted, you make him twice the son of Hell that you are yourselves
    16: Woe to you, blind guides, who say: ‘Whoever will have sworn by the temple, it is nothing. But whoever will have sworn by the gold of the temple is obligated.
    17: You are foolish and blind! For which is greater: the gold, or the temple that sanctifies the gold
    18: And you say: ‘Whoever will have sworn by the altar, it is nothing. But whoever will have sworn by the gift that is on the altar is obligated.
    19: How blind you are! For which is greater: the gift, or the altar that sanctifies the gift
    20: Therefore, whoever swears by the altar, swears by it, and by all that is on it
    21: And whoever will have sworn by the temple, swears by it, and by him who dwells in it
    22: And whoever swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits upon it
    23: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you collect tithes on mint and dill and cumin, but you have abandoned the weightier things of the law: judgment and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done, while not omitting the others
    24: You blind guides, straining out a gnat, while swallowing a camel
    25: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you clean what is outside the cup and the dish, but on the inside you are full of avarice and impurity
    26: You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the dish, and then what is outside becomes clean
    27: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed sepulchers, which outwardly appear brilliant to men, yet truly, inside, they are filled with the bones of the dead and with all filth
    28: So also, you certainly appear to men outwardly to be just. But inwardly you are filled with hypocrisy and iniquity
    29: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites, who build the sepulchers of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the just
    30: And then you say, ‘If we had been there in the days of our fathers, we would not have joined with them in the blood of the prophets.
    31: And so you are witnesses against yourselves, that you are the sons of those who killed the prophets
    32: Complete, then, the measure of your fathers
    33: You serpents, you brood of vipers! How will you escape from the judgment of Hell
    34: For this reason, behold, I send to you prophets and wisemen, and scribes. And some of these you will put to death and crucify; and some you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city
    35: so that upon you may fall all the blood of the just, which has been shed upon the earth, from the blood of Abel the just, even to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barachiah, whom you killed between the temple and the altar
    36: Amen I say to you, all these things shall fall upon this generation
    37: Jerusalem, Jerusalem! You kill the prophets and stone those who have been sent to you. How often I have wanted to gather your children together, in the way that a hen gathers her young under her wings. But you were not willing
    38: Behold, your house shall be abandoned to you, having been deserted
    39: For I say to you, you shall not see me again, until you say: ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.’ 

  Chapter 24.

    1: And Jesus departed from the temple and went away. And his disciples approached him, so as to show him the buildings of the temple
    2: But he said to them in response: “Do you see all these things? Amen I say to you, there shall not remain here stone upon stone, which is not torn down.
    3: Then, when he was seated at the Mount of Olives, the disciples drew near to him privately, saying: “Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign of your advent and of the consummation of the age?
    4: And answering, Jesus said to them: “Pay attention, lest someone lead you astray
    5: For many will come in my name saying, ‘I am the Christ.’ And they will lead many astray
    6: For you will hear of battles and rumors of battles. Take care not to be disturbed. For these things must be, but the end is not so soon
    7: For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be pestilences, and famines, and earthquakes in places
    8: But all these things are just the beginning of the sorrows
    9: Then they will hand you over to tribulation, and they will kill you. And you will be hated by all nations for the sake of my name
    10: And then many will be led into sin, and will betray one another, and will have hatred for one another
    11: And many false prophets will arise, and they will lead many astray
    12: And because iniquity has abounded, the charity of many will grow cold
    13: But whoever will have persevered until the end, the same shall be saved
    14: And this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached throughout the entire world, as a testimony to all nations. And then the consummation will occur
    15: Therefore, when you will have seen the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place, may he who reads understand
    16: then those who are in Judea, let them flee to the mountains
    17: And whoever is on the roof, let him not descend to take anything from his house
    18: And whoever is in the field, let him not turn back to take his tunic
    19: So then, woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days
    20: But pray that your flight may not be in winter, or on the Sabbath
    21: For then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until the present, and such as will not be
    22: And unless those days had been shortened, no flesh would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, those days shall be shortened
    23: Then if anyone will have said to you, ‘Behold, here is the Christ,’ or ‘he is there,’ do not be willing to believe it
    24: For there will arise false Christs and false prophets. And they will produce great signs and wonders, so much so as to lead into error even the elect (if this could be)
    25: Behold, I have warned you beforehand
    26: Therefore, if they will have said to you, ‘Behold, he is in the desert,’ do not choose to go out, or, ‘Behold, he is in the inner rooms,’ do not be willing to believe it
    27: For just as lightning goes out from the east, and appears even in the west, so shall it be also at the advent of the Son of man
    28: Wherever the body shall be, there also will the eagles be gathered together
    29: And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken
    30: And then the sign of the Son of man shall appear in heaven. And then all tribes of the earth shall mourn. And they shall see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven, with great power and majesty
    31: And he shall send out his Angels with a trumpet and a great voice. And they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the heights of the heavens, even to their furthest limits
    32: So, from the fig tree learn a parable. When its branch has now become tender and the leaves have sprung forth, you know that summer is near
    33: So also, when you will have seen all these things, know that it is near, even at the threshold
    34: Amen I say to you, that this lineage shall not pass away, until all these things have been done
    35: Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away
    36: But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the Angels of the heavens, but only the Father
    37: And just as in the days of Noah, so also will be the advent of the Son of man
    38: For it will be just as it was in the days before the flood: eating and drinking, marrying and being given in marriage, even until that day when Noah entered into the ark
    39: And they did not realize it, until the flood came and took them all away. So also will the advent of the Son of man be
    40: Then two men will be in a field: one will be taken up, and one will be left behind
    41: Two women will be grinding at a millstone: one will be taken up, and one will be left behind
    42: Therefore, be vigilant. For you do not know at what hour your Lord will return
    43: But know this: if only the father of the family knew at what hour the thief would arrive, he would certainly keep vigil and not permit his house to be broken into
    44: For this reason, you also must be prepared, for you do not know at what hour the Son of man will return
    45: Consider this: who is a faithful and prudent servant, who has been appointed by his lord over his family, to give them their portion in due time
    46: Blessed is that servant, if, when his lord has arrived, he shall find him doing so
    47: Amen I say to you, he shall appoint him over all of his goods
    48: But if that evil servant has said in his heart, ‘My lord has been delayed in returning,
    49: and so, he begins to strike his fellow servants, and he eats and drinks with the inebriated
    50: then the lord of that servant will arrive on a day that he does not expect, and at an hour that he does not know
    51: And he shall separate him, and he shall place his portion with the hypocrites, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

End of day 289.