Day 204:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['48', '49', '50', '51']:

  Chapter 48.

    1: And the prophet Elijah arose like a fire, and his word burned like a torch
    2: He brought a famine upon them, and those who provoked him in their envy became few. For they could not bear the precepts of the Lord
    3: By the word of the Lord, he closed the heavens, and he brought down fire from heaven three times
    4: In this way, Elijah was magnified in his wondrous works. So who can say that he is similar to you in glory
    5: He raised up a dead man from the grave, from the fate of death, by the word of the Lord God
    6: He threw down kings unto perdition, and he easily shattered their power and boasting from his bed
    7: He heeded the judgment at Sinai, and the judgments of punishment at Horeb
    8: He anointed kings unto repentance, and he chose the prophets who would follow after him
    9: He was received into a whirlwind of fire, into a swift chariot with fiery horses
    10: He is written in the judgments of the times, so as to lessen the wrath of the Lord, to reconcile the heart of the father to the son, and to restore the tribes of Jacob
    11: Blessed are those who saw you, and who were adorned with your friendship
    12: For we live only in our life, and after death, our name will not be the same
    13: Certainly, Elijah was covered by the whirlwind, and his spirit was completed in Elisha. In his days, he was not fearful of the ruler, and no power defeated him
    14: No word overwhelmed him, and after death, his body prophesied
    15: In his life, he gave great portents, and in death, he wrought miracles
    16: In all these things, the people did not repent, and they did not withdraw from their sins, even until they were cast out of their land, and were dispersed throughout all the earth
    17: And there was left behind a people very few in number, but with a leader in the house of David
    18: Some of these did what pleased God. But others committed many sins
    19: Hezekiah fortified his city, and he brought water into its midst, and he dug into rock with iron, and he built a well for water
    20: In his days, Sennacherib rose up, and he sent Rabshakeh, and he lifted up his hand against them, and he extended his hand against Zion, and he became arrogant in his power
    21: Then their hearts and hands shook. And they were in pain, like women giving birth
    22: And they called upon the merciful Lord. And they spread their hands and lifted them up to heaven. And the holy Lord God quickly heeded their voice
    23: He was not mindful of their sins, and he did not give them over to their enemies. Instead, he purified them by the hand of Isaiah, the holy prophet
    24: He threw down the army of the Assyrians, and the Angel of the Lord crushed them
    25: For Hezekiah did what pleased God, and he went with fortitude in the way of David his father, just as he had been commanded by Isaiah, a prophet great and faithful in the sight of God
    26: In his days, the sun went backwards, and he added to the king’s life
    27: With a great spirit he saw the final things. And he consoled the mourners in Zion
    28: He revealed the future, even the distant future, and hidden things before they occurred

  Chapter 49.

    1: The memory of Josiah is like a blend of  fragrances composed by the work of a perfumer
    2: His remembrance will be sweet like honey in every mouth, and like music at a banquet of wine
    3: He was divinely directed for the repentance of the nation, and he took away the abominations of impiety
    4: And he guided his heart toward the Lord. And during the days of sinners, he strengthened piety
    5: Other than David, and Hezekiah, and Josiah, everyone committed sin
    6: For the kings of Judah abandoned the law of the Most High, and they held contempt for the fear of God
    7: For they gave their kingdom to foreigners, and their glory to a strange people
    8: They set fire to the chosen city of sanctity, and they made its streets desolate, in accord with the hand of Jeremiah
    9: For they treated him wickedly, though he was consecrated as a prophet from his mother’s womb: to overthrow, and to root out, and to destroy, and also to rebuild and to renew
    10: It was Ezekiel who saw a vision of glory, which was revealed to him with the chariot of the Cherubim
    11: For it called to mind the enemies under the figure of rain, to do good to those who have revealed the upright ways
    12: And may the bones of the twelve prophets spring up from their place. For they strengthened Jacob, and they redeemed themselves with a virtuous faith
    13: How will we magnify Zerubbabel? For he, too, was like a signet on the right hand
    14: So also was Jesus, the son of Jozadak, who in their days built the house, and raised up a holy temple to the Lord, as a preparation for everlasting glory
    15: And may Nehemiah be remembered for a long time. He raised up for us the walls that had been torn down. And he made firm the gates and the bars. He raised up our houses
    16: No one has been born upon the earth like Enoch. And he was also taken up from the earth
    17: And there was no one like Joseph, who was a man born to be foremost among his brothers, the firmament of his clan, a guide to his brethren, the mainstay of his people
    18: And his bones were visited, and after death, they prophesied
    19: Shem and Seth obtained glory among men. And above every soul, at the very beginning, was Adam

  Chapter 50.

    1: Simon, the high priest, son of Onias: in his life, he propped up the house, and in his days, he strengthened the temple
    2: Even the height of the temple was established by him: the double building and the high walls of the temple
    3: In his days, waters flowed out from the wells, and these were full beyond measure, like the sea
    4: He cared for his nation, and he freed it from perdition
    5: He prevailed, so as to enlarge the city. And he obtained glory by his behavior among the people. And he enlarged the entrance of the house and of the atrium
    6: He shined in his days like the morning star through the midst of a cloud, and like the full moon
    7: And he shined forth in the temple of God in this manner: like the sun when it shines brightly
    8: and like a rainbow shining amid clouds of glory, and like flowering roses in the days of spring, and like lilies along the water’s edge, and like sweet smelling frankincense in the days of summer
    9: like a fire shining brightly, and like frankincense burning within a fire
    10: like a vessel of solid gold, adorned with every precious stone
    11: like an olive tree producing buds, and like a cypress tree lifting itself on high, when he received the robe of glory and was vested with the consummation of virtue
    12: He gave glory to the vestment of sanctity, when he ascended to the holy altar
    13: Then, when he received the portions from the hands of the priests, he himself stood next to the altar. And around him was the crown of his brethren, like a cedar planted on a mountain of Lebanon
    14: And they stood around him like palm branches, and all were sons of Aaron in their glory
    15: Then the oblation of the Lord was in their hands, in the sight of the entire synagogue of Israel. And completing his service at the altar, so as to magnify the offering to the Most High King
    16: he extended his hand to make a libation, and he offered from the blood of the grape
    17: At the base of the altar, he poured out a divine fragrance to the Most High Prince
    18: Then the sons of Aaron shouted; they sounded finely-made trumpets, and they made a great noise, as a memorial in the sight of God
    19: Then all the people at once hurried forward, and they fell to the ground on their faces, to adore the Lord their God, and to offer prayers to Almighty God Most High
    20: And the singers of Psalms raised their voices, and a full sweet sound increased in the great house
    21: And the people petitioned the Most High Lord in prayer, even until the honor of the Lord was completed, and they finished offering their gifts
    22: Then, descending, he extended his hands over the entire congregation of the sons of Israel, to give glory to God from his lips, and to glory in his name
    23: And he repeated his prayer, wanting to reveal the virtue of God
    24: And now, pray to the God of all, who has accomplished great things over all the earth, who has increased our days from our mother’s womb, and who has acted toward us in accord with his mercy
    25: May he give us joyfulness in heart, and may there be peace in our days, in Israel for unending days
    26: so that Israel may trust the mercy of God to be with us, in order to free us in his days
    27: Two nations my soul hates, and a third, which I hate, is not a nation
    28: those who sit upon mount Seir, and the Philistines, and the foolish people who live at Shechem
    29: Jesus, the son of Sirach, of Jerusalem, who renewed wisdom from his heart, wrote the doctrine of wisdom and discipline in this book
    30: Blessed is he who lives by these good things. Whoever places these things in his heart will be ever wise
    31: For if he does these things, he will prevail in all things. For the light of God is upon his footsteps

  Chapter 51.

    1: The prayer of Jesus, the son of Sirach: I will confess to you, O Lord and King, and I will give praise to you, O God my Saviour
    2: I will acknowledge your name. For you have been my Helper and Protector
    3: And you have freed my body from perdition, from the snare of the iniquitous tongue, and from the lips of those who forge lies. And you have been my Helper in the sight of those who stood nearby
    4: And you have freed me according to the multitude of the mercy of your name: from those who roared and prepared to devour
    5: from the hands of those who sought my life, and from the gates of tribulation that surrounded me
    6: from the oppression of the flames that surrounded me, and so I was not burned in the midst of the fire
    7: from the depths of the bowels of hell, and from the defiled tongue, and from lying words, from an iniquitous king, and from an unjust tongue
    8: My soul shall praise the Lord, even unto death
    9: For my life was drawing near to hell below
    10: And they surrounded me on every side. And there was no one who would help me. I looked around for the assistance of men, and there was none
    11: Then I remembered your mercy, O Lord, and your works, which are from the very beginning
    12: For you rescue those who persevere for you, O Lord, and you free them from the hands of the Gentiles
    13: You exalted my habitation upon the earth, and I made supplication that death would pass away
    14: I called upon the Lord, the Father of my Lord, so that he would not abandon me in the day of my tribulation, nor in the time of arrogance without assistance
    15: I will praise your name unceasingly, and I will praise it with thanksgiving, for my prayer was heeded
    16: And you freed me from perdition, and you rescued me from the time of iniquity
    17: Because of this, I will give thanks and praise to you, and I will bless the name of the Lord
    18: When I was still young, before I wandered astray, I sought wisdom openly in my prayer
    19: I asked for her before the temple, and even to the very end, I will inquire after her. And she flourished like a newly-ripened grape
    20: My heart rejoiced in her. My feet walked in the right path. From my youth, I pursued her
    21: I bent my ear a little and accepted her
    22: I found much wisdom within myself, and I benefited greatly by her
    23: I will give glory to him who gives wisdom to me
    24: For I have decided that I should act according to wisdom. I have been zealous for what is good, and so I will not be confounded
    25: My soul has struggled for wisdom, and in doing so, I have been confirmed
    26: I extended my hands on high, and I mourned my ignorance of her
    27: I directed my soul toward her, and I found her within knowledge
    28: From the beginning, I held my heart to wisdom. Because of this, I will not be forsaken
    29: My stomach was stirred up while seeking her. Because of her, I will hold a good possession
    30: The Lord has given me a tongue as my reward, and I will praise him with it
    31: Draw near to me, you who are untaught, and gather yourselves into the house of discipline
    32: Why are you reluctant? And what do you have to say about these things? Your souls are exceedingly thirsty
    33: I have opened my mouth, and I have spoken. Buy wisdom for yourselves without silver
    34: and subject your neck to her yoke, and let your soul accept her discipline. For she is close enough to be found
    35: See with your own eyes how I have labored only a little, and have found much rest for myself
    36: Take up discipline, as if it were a great sum of money, and possess an abundance of gold in her
    37: Let your soul rejoice in his mercy. For you will not be confounded by his praise
    38: Accomplish your work before the time. And he will give you your reward in his time

End of day 204.