Day 29:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: The Lord also said to Moses: Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and you shall say to them: Do not allow a priest to be contaminated by the death of his citizens
    2: except only by his blood-relatives and near-relatives, that is, by a father or mother, or by a son or daughter, or also a brother
    3: or a virgin sister, who is not married to a husband
    4: But not even by the leader of his people shall he be contaminated
    5: Neither shall they shave their head or their beard, and they shall not make incisions in their flesh
    6: They shall be holy to their God, and they shall not pollute his name. For they offer the incense of the Lord and the bread of their God, and because of this they shall be holy
    7: They shall not take as a wife a promiscuous woman, or a prostitute, or her who has been repudiated by her husband. For they are consecrated to their God
    8: and they offer the bread of the presence. Therefore, let them be holy, for I also am holy: the Lord, who sanctifies them
    9: If the daughter of a priest will have been taken into prostitution, and will have violated the name of her father, she shall be consumed by fire
    10: The high priest, that is, the priest who is the greatest among his brothers, upon whose head the oil of anointing has been poured, and whose hands have been consecrated for the priesthood, and who has been vested with the holy vestments: he shall not expose his head; he shall not rend his vestments
    11: And he shall not enter to any dead body whatsoever; likewise, not even by his father or mother shall he be contaminated
    12: Neither shall he exit from the holy places, lest he pollute the Sanctuary of the Lord. For the oil of the holy anointing of his God is upon him. I am the Lord
    13: He shall take a virgin as his wife
    14: But a widow, or one who has been repudiated or defiled, or also a mistress, he shall not accept, but only a maiden from among his own people
    15: He shall not mingle the stock of his family with the common people of his nation. For I am the Lord, who sanctifies him
    16: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    17: Say to Aaron: A man from your offspring, throughout their families, who has a blemish, shall not offer the bread to his God
    18: Neither shall he approach to minister to him: if he is blind, if he is lame, if he is small, or large, or has a crooked nose
    19: if his foot or hand is broken
    20: if he has a bulging back or bleary eyes, or if he has a white spot in his eye, or a chronic scab, or a skin disease on his body, or a hernia
    21: Anyone from the offspring of Aaron, the priest, who has a blemish, shall not approach to offer sacrifices to the Lord, nor the bread to his God
    22: Nevertheless, he shall eat from the loaves which are offered in the Sanctuary
    23: But even so, he may not enter within the veil, nor approach to the altar. For he has a blemish, and he must not contaminate my Sanctuary. I am the Lord, who sanctifies them
    24: Therefore, Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all of Israel, everything that had been commanded to him

  Chapter 22.

    1: The Lord also spoke to Moses saying
    2: Speak to Aaron and to his sons, so that they may be careful of those things which have been consecrated for the sons of Israel, and so that they may not contaminate the name of the things sanctified to me, which they offer. I am the Lord
    3: Say to them and to their posterity: Every man of your stock, who approaches toward those things which have been consecrated, and which the sons of Israel have brought forward to the Lord, in whom there is uncleanness, shall perish before the Lord. I am the Lord
    4: The man of the offspring of Aaron, who is a leper or who is suffering a flow of seed, shall not eat of those things which have been sanctified to me, until he is healed. Whoever will have touched what is unclean because of the dead, and he whose seed goes out from him, as if from sexual intercourse
    5: and whoever has touched a creeping thing, or any kind of unclean thing, the touching of which is filthy
    6: shall be unclean until evening, and shall not eat those things which have been sanctified. But when he has washed his flesh with water
    7: and the sun has set, then, having been purified, he shall eat from what has been sanctified, because it is his food
    8: Whatever dies on its own, and whatever has been seized by a wild beast, they shall not eat, nor shall they be polluted by these. I am the Lord
    9: Let them observe my precepts, so that they may not fall under sin, and die in the Sanctuary, when they will have defiled it. I am the Lord, who sanctifies them
    10: No foreigner shall eat from what has been sanctified; a guest of the priests and a hired servant shall not eat from them
    11: But whomever the priest has bought, and whoever has been born into his house, these shall eat from them
    12: If the daughter of a priest has been married to any of the people, she shall not eat from what has been sanctified, nor from the first-fruits
    13: But if she is a widow or divorced, and, being without children, she returns to her father’s house, she shall be nourished by her father’s foods, just as she was accustomed to do as a girl. No foreigner shall have the authority to eat from them
    14: Whoever, through ignorance, eats from what has been sanctified shall add a fifth part to that which he ate, and he shall give it to the priest at the Sanctuary
    15: And they shall not contaminate what has been sanctified from the sons of Israel, which they offer to the Lord
    16: lest perhaps they may suffer the iniquity of their offense, when they will have eaten what has been sanctified. I am the Lord, who sanctifies them
    17: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    18: Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: The man from the house of Israel, or from the newcomers who live with you, who would bring forward his oblation, either fulfilling his vows or offering spontaneously, whatever he brings forward as a holocaust for the Lord
    19: in order to be offered through you, shall offer an immaculate male from the oxen, or from the sheep, or from the goats
    20: If it has a blemish, you shall not offer it, and it shall not be acceptable
    21: The man who will have offered a victim of peace offerings to the Lord, either fulfilling his vows or offering spontaneously, whether of oxen, or of sheep, shall offer what is immaculate, so that it may be acceptable. There shall be no blemish in it
    22: If it is blind, or if it is broken, or if it has a scar, or if it is has a boil, or a skin disease or infection, you shall not offer these to the Lord, nor shall you burn any of these upon the altar of the Lord
    23: An ox or a sheep, having an amputated ear or tail, you are able to offer voluntarily, but a vow is not able to be fulfilled by these
    24: You shall not offer to the Lord any animal which has the testicles bruised, or crushed, or cut and taken away, and you shall not cause any of these things in your land
    25: From the hand of a foreigner, you shall not offer bread to your God, nor anything else that he would choose to give; for all this has been corrupted and blemished. You shall not accept them
    26: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    27: An ox, a sheep, or a goat, when they have been born, shall be under the udder of their mother for seven days. But on the eighth day and thereafter, they are able to be offered to the Lord
    28: Whether it is an ox, or a sheep, they shall not be immolated on the same day with their newborns
    29: If you immolate a victim as an act of thanksgiving to the Lord, so that he may be pleased
    30: you shall eat it on the same day; none of it shall remain until morning on the next day. I am the Lord
    31: Observe my commandments, and do them. I am the Lord
    32: Do not pollute my holy name, so that I may be sanctified in the midst of the sons of Israel. I am the Lord, who sanctifies you
    33: and who led you away from the land of Egypt, so that I may be to you as God. I am the Lord

  Chapter 23.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: These are the feasts of the Lord, which you shall call holy
    3: For six days you shall do work; the seventh day, because it is the rest of the Sabbath, shall be called holy. You shall do no work on that day; it is the Sabbath of the Lord in all your dwelling places
    4: Therefore, these are the feasts of the Lord, which you must celebrate in their times
    5: The first month, the fourteenth day of the month, at evening, is the Passover of the Lord
    6: And the fifteenth day of this month is the solemnity of the unleavened bread of the Lord. For seven days shall you eat unleavened bread
    7: The first day shall be greatly honored and holy to you; you shall do no servile work in it
    8: But you shall offer a sacrifice with fire, for seven days, to the Lord. Then the seventh day shall be more honored and more holy; and you shall do no servile work in it
    9: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    10: Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: When you will have entered into the land which I will give to you, and you will have harvested your grain fields, you shall carry the sheaves of grain, the first-fruits of your harvest, to the priest
    11: He shall lift up a sheaf before the Lord, on the day after the Sabbath, so that it may be acceptable for you, and he shall sanctify it
    12: And on the same day that the sheaf is consecrated, a one-year-old immaculate lamb shall be slain as a holocaust of the Lord
    13: And the libations shall be offered with it: two-tenths of fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil, as an incense and a most sweet odor for the Lord; likewise, libations of wine, the fourth part of a hin
    14: Bread, and parched grain, and boiled grain, you shall not eat from the grain field, until the day when you shall offer from it to your God. It is an everlasting precept in your generations and in all of your dwelling places
    15: Therefore, you shall number from the day after the Sabbath, in which you offered a sheaf of the first-fruits, seven full weeks
    16: all the way to the day after the completion of the seventh week, that is, fifty days, and then you shall offer a new sacrifice to the Lord
    17: from all of your dwelling places: two loaves from the first-fruits, from two-tenths of leavened fine wheat flour, which you shall bake as the first-fruits of the Lord
    18: And you shall offer with the bread: seven immaculate one-year-old lambs, and one calf from the herd, and two rams, and these shall be a holocaust, with their libations, as a most sweet odor to the Lord
    19: You shall also offer a he-goat for sin, and two one-year-old lambs as victims of peace offerings
    20: And when the priest has lifted them up with the loaves of the first-fruits, in the sight of the Lord, they shall fall to his use
    21: And you shall call this day most honored and most holy; you shall do no servile work in it. It shall be an everlasting ordinance in all your dwelling places and generations
    22: And when you will have harvested the grain fields of your land, you shall not cut it down all the way to the ground; neither shall you gather the remnants of the ears of grain, but you shall leave these for paupers and strangers. I am the Lord your God
    23: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    24: Say to the sons of Israel: The seventh month, the first day of the month, shall be a Sabbath for you, a memorial, with the sounding of trumpets, and it shall be called holy
    25: You shall do no servile work in it, and you shall offer a holocaust to the Lord
    26: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    27: The tenth day of this seventh month shall be the day of atonement; it shall be most honored, and it shall be called holy. And you shall afflict your souls on that day, and you shall offer a holocaust to the Lord
    28: You shall do no servile work in the time of this day; for it is a day of propitiation, so that the Lord your God may be merciful to you
    29: Every soul that has not been afflicted on this day shall perish from his people
    30: and anyone who will have done work, I shall wipe him away from his people
    31: Therefore, you shall do no work on that day. This shall be an everlasting ordinance for you in all your generations and dwelling places
    32: It is a Sabbath of rest, and you shall afflict your souls beginning on the ninth day of the month: from evening until evening you shall celebrate your Sabbaths
    33: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    34: Say to the sons of Israel: From the fifteenth day of this seventh month, there shall be the Feast of Tabernacles: seven days for the Lord
    35: The first day shall be called most honored and most holy; you shall do no servile work in it
    36: And for seven days you shall offer holocausts to the Lord. Likewise, the eighth day shall be most honored and most holy, and you shall offer holocausts to the Lord. For it is the day of assembly and gathering. You shall do no servile work in it
    37: These are the feasts of the Lord, which you shall call most honored and most holy, and in them you shall offer oblations to the Lord: holocausts and libations according to the rite of each particular day
    38: aside from the Sabbaths of the Lord, and your donations, and that which you offer by a vow, or which you give to the Lord spontaneously
    39: Therefore, from the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you will have gathered together all the fruits of your land, you shall celebrate the feast of the Lord for seven days. The first day and the eighth day shall be a Sabbath, that is, a day of rest
    40: And you shall take for yourselves, on the first day, the fruits of the most beautiful tree, and branches of palm trees, and branches of trees with thick foliage, and willows from the torrent. And you shall rejoice in the sight of the Lord your God
    41: And you shall celebrate its solemnity for seven days each year. This shall be an everlasting ordinance in your generations. In the seventh month, you shall celebrate the feast
    42: and you shall live under shelters for seven days. All who are of the family of Israel shall dwell in tabernacles
    43: so that your posterity may learn that I caused the sons of Israel to live in tabernacles, when I led them away from the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God
    44: And Moses spoke about the solemnities of the Lord to the sons of Israel

  Chapter 24.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: Instruct the sons of Israel, so that they may bring to you clear oil from the purest olives, in order to supply the lamps continuousl
    3: outside the veil of the testimony in the tabernacle of the covenant. And Aaron shall place these, from evening until morning, before the Lord, as a perpetual worship and ritual in your generations
    4: They shall be placed upon the most pure candlestick in the sight of the Lord always
    5: You shall also receive fine wheat flour, and you shall bake twelve loaves from it, each loaf of which shall have two-tenths
    6: And you shall arrange them, six on each side, upon the most pure table before the Lord
    7: And you shall place upon them the clearest frankincense, so that the bread may be a memorial of oblation for the Lord
    8: On each Sabbath, they shall be changed before the Lord, having been received from the sons of Israel as an everlasting covenant
    9: And they shall be for Aaron and his sons, so that they may eat these in the holy place; for it is the Holy of holies from the sacrifices of the Lord, as a perpetual right
    10: Then, behold, the son of an Israelite woman, whom she had born of an Egyptian man among the sons of Israel, going out, was quarreling in the camp with a man of Israel
    11: And when he had blasphemed the name, and had cursed it, he was led to Moses. (Now his mother was called Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri from the tribe of Dan.
    12: And they sent him to prison, until they might know what the Lord would command
    13: who spoke to Moses
    14: saying: Lead away the blasphemer beyond the camp, and let all who heard him place their hands upon his head, and let the entire people stone him
    15: And you shall say to the sons of Israel: The man who curses his God shall bear his sin
    16: and whoever will have blasphemed the name of the Lord shall be put to death. The entire multitude shall overwhelm him with stones, whether he be a citizen or a sojourner. Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall be put to death
    17: Whoever will have struck and killed a man shall be put to death
    18: Whoever will have struck down an animal shall repay its equivalent, that is, a life for a life
    19: Whoever will have inflicted a blemish on any of his citizens, just as he has done, so shall it be done to him
    20: fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, shall he repay. Whatever degree of blemish he has inflicted, so shall he be compelled to suffer
    21: Whoever strikes down a beast, shall repay another. Whoever strikes a man shall be punished
    22: Let there be equal judgment among you, whether it is a sojourner or a citizen who will have sinned. For I am the Lord your God
    23: And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel. And they led away him who had blasphemed, beyond the camp, and they overwhelmed him with stones. And the sons of Israel did just as the Lord had instructed Moses

End of day 29.