Day 241:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And he cried out in my ears with a loud voice, saying: “The visitations of the city have drawn near, and each one has equipment for killing in his hand.
    2: And behold, six men were approaching from the way of the upper gate, which looks to the north. And each one had equipment for killing in his hand. Also, one man in their midst was clothed with linen, and an instrument for writing was at his waist. And they entered and stood beside the bronze altar
    3: And the glory of the Lord of Israel was taken up, from the cherub upon which he was, to the threshold of the house. And he called out to the man who was clothed with linen and had an instrument for writing at his waist
    4: And the Lord said to him: “Cross through the middle of the city, in the center of Jerusalem, and seal a Tau upon the foreheads of the grieving men, who are mourning over all the abominations which are being committed in its midst.
    5: And he said to the others, in my hearing: “Cross through the city after him, and strike! Your eye shall not be lenient, and you shall not take pity
    6: Kill, even to utter destruction, old men, young men, and virgins, little ones, and women. But all upon whom see the Tau, you shall not kill. And begin from my sanctuary.” Therefore, they began with the men among the elders, who were before the face of the house
    7: And he said to them: “Defile the house, and fill its courts with the slain! Go forth!” And they went forth and struck down those who were in the city
    8: And when the slaughter was completed, I remained. And I fell upon my face, and crying out, I said: “Alas, alas, alas, O Lord God! Will you now destroy the entire remnant of Israel, by pouring out your fury upon Jerusalem?
    9: And he said to me: “The iniquity of the house of Israel, and of Judah, is vast and exceedingly great, and the land has been filled with blood, and the city has been filled with what is abhorrent. For they have said: ‘The Lord has forsaken the earth,’ and, ‘The Lord does not see.
    10: Therefore, my eye will not be lenient, and I will not take pity. I will repay their own way upon their head.
    11: And behold, the man who was clothed with linen, who had a writing instrument at his back, responded a word, saying: “I have done just as you instructed me.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And I saw, and behold, in the firmament that was over the heads of the cherubim, there appeared above them something like the sapphire stone, with the sight of the likeness of a throne
    2: And he spoke to the man who was clothed with linen, and he said: “Enter, between the wheels that are under the cherubim, and fill your hand with the coals of fire that are between the cherubim, and pour them upon the city.” And he entered, in my sight
    3: Now the cherubim were standing before the right side of the house, when the man entered. And a cloud filled the inner court
    4: And the glory of the Lord was lifted up, from above the cherubim, to the threshold of the house. And the house was filled with the cloud. And the court was filled with the splendor of the glory of the Lord
    5: And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard even in the outer court, like the voice of Almighty God speaking
    6: And when he had instructed the man who was clothed with linen, saying, “Take fire from the midst of the wheels that are between the cherubim,” he entered and stood next to the wheel
    7: And one cherub extended his hand, from the midst of the cherubim, to the fire that was between the cherubim. And he took and gave it into the hands of the one who was clothed with linen, and he accepted it and went forth
    8: And there appeared amid the cherubim the likeness of the hand of a man, under their wings
    9: And I saw, and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim. One wheel was next to one cherub, and another wheel was next to another cherub. And the appearance of the wheels was like the sight of the chrysolite stone
    10: And in their appearance, each one of the four were similar, as if a wheel were in the midst of a wheel
    11: And when they went, they advanced in four parts. And they did not turn as they went. Instead, to the place to which they were inclined to go at first, the rest also followed, and they did not turn back
    12: And their entire body, with their necks and their hands and their wings and the circles, were full of eyes all around the four wheels
    13: And in my hearing, he called these wheels: “constantly changing.
    14: Now each one had four faces. One face was the face of a cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and in the third was the face of a lion, and in the fourth was the face of an eagle
    15: And the cherubim were lifted up. This is the living creature, which I had seen beside the river Chebar
    16: And when the cherubim advanced, the wheels also went beside them. And when the cherubim lifted up their wings in order to be raised up from the earth, the wheels did not remain behind, but they also were beside them
    17: When they were standing, these stood still. And when they were lifted up, these were lifted up. For the spirit of life was in them
    18: And the glory of the Lord went forth from the threshold of the temple, and stood above the cherubim
    19: And the cherubim, lifting up their wings, were raised up from the earth in my sight. And as they went away, the wheels also followed. And it stood at the entrance to the east gate of the house of the Lord. And the glory of the God of Israel was over them
    20: This is the living creature, which I saw under the God of Israel beside the river Chebar. And I understood that they were cherubim
    21: Each one had four faces, and each one had four wings. And the likeness of the hand of a man was under their wings
    22: And, concerning the appearance of their faces, these were the same faces that I had seen beside the river Chebar, and the gaze and force of each one of them was to go before his face

  Chapter 11.

    1: And the Spirit lifted me up, and he brought me to the east gate of the house of the Lord, which looks toward the rising of the sun. And behold, at the entrance to the gate were twenty-five men. And I saw, in their midst, Jaazaniah, the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, leaders of the people
    2: And he said to me: “Son of man, these are men who devise iniquity. And they offer a wicked counsel in this city
    3: saying: ‘Was it so long ago that houses were being built? This city is a cooking pot, and we are the meat.
    4: Therefore, prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.
    5: And the Spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and he said to me: “Speak: Thus says the Lord: So have you spoken, O house of Israel. And I know the thoughts of your heart
    6: You have killed very many in this city, and you have filled its streets with the slain
    7: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Your slain, whom you have placed in its midst, these are the meat, and this city is the cooking pot. And I will draw you out of its midst
    8: You have dread the sword, and so I will lead the sword over you, says the Lord God
    9: And I will cast you out of its midst, and I will give you over to the hand of the enemies, and I will execute judgments among you
    10: You will fall by the sword. I will judge you within the borders of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord
    11: This city will not be a cooking pot for you, and you will not be like meat in its midst. I will judge you within the borders of Israel
    12: And you shall know that I am the Lord. For you have not walked in my precepts, and you have not accomplished my judgments. Instead, you have acted in accord with the judgments of the Gentiles, who are all around you.
    13: And it happened that, when I prophesied, Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, died. And I fell upon my face, and I cried out with a loud voice, and I said: “Alas, alas, alas, O Lord God! Will you cause the consummation of the remnant of Israel?
    14: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    15: “Son of man, your brothers, the men among your close relatives, your brothers and the entire house of Israel, are all among those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said: ‘Withdraw far from the Lord; the earth has been given to us as a possession.
    16: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Since I have caused them to be far away, among the Gentiles, and since I have dispersed them among the lands, I will be a little sanctuary for them within the lands to which they have gone
    17: Because of this, say to them: Thus says the Lord God: I will gather you from among the peoples, and I will unite you, from the lands into which you were dispersed, and I will give the soil of Israel to you
    18: And they shall go to that place, and they shall remove all the offenses and all its abominations from that place
    19: And I will give them one heart. And I will distribute a new spirit to their interior. And I will take away the heart of stone from their body. And I will give them a heart of flesh
    20: So may they may walk in my precepts, and observe my judgments, and accomplish them. And so may they be my people, and I will be their God
    21: But as for those whose heart walks after their offenses and abominations, I will set their own way upon their head, says the Lord God.
    22: And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels with them. And the glory of the God of Israel was above them
    23: And the glory of the Lord ascended from the midst of the city and stood above the mountain, which is to the east of the city
    24: And the Spirit lifted me up, and he brought me into Chaldea, to those of the transmigration, in a vision, in the Spirit of God. And the vision that I had seen was raised up, away from me
    25: And I spoke, to those of the transmigration, all the words of the Lord that he had revealed to me

  Chapter 12.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, you live in the midst of a provoking house. They have eyes to see, and they do not see; and ears to hear, and they do not hear. For they are a provoking house
    3: As for you, then, son of man, prepare for yourself the supplies for traveling far away, and travel away in the daytime in their sight. And you shall travel from your place to another place in their sight, so that perhaps they may consider it. For they are a provoking house
    4: And you shall carry your supplies outside, like the supplies of one who is traveling far away, in the daytime in their sight. Then you shall go forth in the evening in their presence, just as one goes forth who is moving far away
    5: Dig for yourself through the wall, before their eyes. And you shall go out through it
    6: In their sight, you shall be carried on shoulders, you shall be carried in the dark. You shall cover your face, and you shall not see the ground. For I have appointed you as a portent for the house of Israel.
    7: Therefore, I did just as he had instructed me. I brought out my supplies in the daytime, like the supplies of one who is moving far away. And in the evening, I dug myself through the wall by hand. And I went out in the dark, and I was carried on shoulders, in their sight
    8: And the word of the Lord came to me, in the morning, saying
    9: “Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the provoking house, said to you: ‘What are you doing?
    10: Say to them: Thus says the Lord God: This is the burden concerning my leader who is in Jerusalem, and concerning the entire house of Israel, who are in their midst
    11: Say: I am your portent. Just as I have done, so shall it be done to them. They will be taken captive and moved far away
    12: And the leader who is in their midst will be carried on shoulders; he will go forth in darkness. They will dig through the wall, so that they may lead him away. His face will be covered, so that he may not see the land with his eye
    13: And I will extend my net over him, and he will be captured in my dragnet. And I will lead him to Babylon, into the land of the Chaldeans, but he himself will not see it. And there he shall die
    14: And all who are around him, his guards and his companies, I will scatter into every wind. And I will unsheathe the sword after them
    15: And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have dispersed them among the Gentiles, and will have sowed them among the lands
    16: And I will leave behind a few men of them, apart from the sword, and the famine, and the pestilence, so that they may declare all their wicked deeds among the Gentiles, to whom they will go. And they shall know that I am the Lord.
    17: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    18: “Son of man, eat your bread in consternation. Moreover, drink your water hurriedly and in sorrow
    19: And say to the people of the land: Thus says the Lord God, to those who are living in Jerusalem, in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread in anxiety, and drink their water in desolation, so that the land may be desolate before its multitude, because of the iniquity of all who are living in it
    20: And cities that are now inhabited will become desolate, and the land will be forsaken. And you shall know that I am the Lord.
    21: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    22: “Son of man, what is this proverb that you have in the land of Israel? saying: ‘The days shall be extended in length, and every vision shall perish.
    23: Therefore, say to them: Thus says the Lord God: I will cause this proverb to cease, and it shall no longer be a common saying in Israel. And tell them that the days are approaching, and the word of every vision
    24: For there shall no longer be any empty visions, nor any ambiguous divination in the midst of the sons of Israel
    25: For I, the Lord, will speak. And whatever word I will speak, it shall be done, and it shall not be delayed any more. Instead, in your days, O provoking house, I will speak a word and do it, says the Lord God.
    26: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    27: “Son of man, behold the house of Israel, those who are saying: ‘The visions that this one sees is many days away,’ and, ‘This man prophesies about times that are far away.
    28: Because of this, say to them: Thus says the Lord God: No word of mine will be delayed any longer. The word that I will speak will be fulfilled, says the Lord God.

End of day 241.