Day 214:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: And it happened that, when king Hezekiah had heard this, he rent his garments, and he wrapped himself in sackcloth, and he entered the house of the Lord
    2: And he sent Eliakim, who was over the house, and Shebna, the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah, the son of Amoz, the prophet
    3: And they said to him: “Thus says Hezekiah: This day is a day of tribulation, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy. For the sons have arrived at the time for birth, but there is not enough strength to bring them forth
    4: Perhaps, somehow, the Lord your God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of the Assyrians, his lord, has sent to blaspheme the living God, and will rebuke the words that the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, lift up your prayers on behalf of the remnant which has been left behind.
    5: And so the servants of king Hezekiah went to Isaiah
    6: And Isaiah said to them: “You shall say this to your lord: Thus says the Lord: Do not be afraid to face the words that you have heard, by which the servants of the king of the Assyrians blasphemed me
    7: Behold, I will send a spirit to him, and he will hear a message, and he will return to his own land. And I will cause him to fall by the sword, in his own land.
    8: Then Rabshakeh returned, and he found the king of the Assyrians fighting against Libnah. For he had heard that he had set out from Lachish
    9: And he heard from Tirhakah, the king of Ethiopia: “He has gone forth so that he may fight against you.” And when he had heard this, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying
    10: “You shall say this to Hezekiah, the king of Judah, saying: Do not let your God, in whom you trust, deceive you by saying: ‘Jerusalem will not be given into the hands of the king of the Assyrians.
    11: Behold, you have heard about all that the kings of the Assyrians have done to all the lands that they have conquered, and so, how can you be delivered
    12: Have the gods of the nations rescued those whom my fathers have conquered: Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the sons of Eden who were at Telassar
    13: Where is the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad, or the king of the city of Sepharvaim, or of Hena and Ivvah?
    14: And Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers, and he read it, and he went up to the house of the Lord, and Hezekiah spread it out in the sight of the Lord
    15: And Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, saying
    16: “O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel who sits upon the Cherubim: you alone are God of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth
    17: O Lord, incline your ear and listen. O Lord, open your eyes and see. And hear all the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent to blaspheme the living God
    18: For truly, O Lord, the kings of the Assyrians have laid waste to countries and territories
    19: And they have cast their gods into the fire. For these were not gods, but the works of men’s hands, of wood and of stone. And they broke them into pieces
    20: And now, O Lord our God, save us from his hand. And let all the kingdoms of the earth acknowledge that you alone are Lord.
    21: And Isaiah, the son of Amoz, sent to Hezekiah, saying: “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Because of what you have prayed to me about Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians
    22: this is the word that the Lord has spoken over him: The virgin daughter of Zion has despised you and mocked you. The daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head at you
    23: Whom have you insulted? And whom have you blasphemed? And against whom have you lifted up your voice and raised up your eyes on high? Against the Holy One of Israel
    24: By the hand of your servants, you have reproached the Lord.  And you have said: ‘With a multitude of my four-horse chariots, I have ascended the heights of the mountains adjoining Lebanon. And I will cut down its lofty cedars and its choice pine trees. And I will reach the top of its summit, to the forest of its Carmel
    25: I dug deep, and I drank water, and I dried up all the river banks with the sole of my foot.
    26: Have you not heard what I have done to it in past times? In ancient times, I formed it. And now I have brought it forth. And it has been made so that the hills and the fortified cities would fight together, unto its destruction
    27: Their inhabitants had unsteady hands. They trembled and were confused. They became like the plants of the field, and the grass of the pastures, and like the weeds on the rooftops, which wither before they are mature
    28: I know your habitation, and your arrival, and your departure, and your madness against me
    29: When you became angry against me, your arrogance rose up to my ears. Therefore, I will place a ring in your nose, and a bit between your lips. And I will turn you back on the road by which you arrived
    30: But this shall be a sign for you: Eat, in this year, whatever springs up on its own. And in the second year, eat fruits. But in the third year, sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit
    31: And what will be saved from the house of Judah, and what is left behind, will form deep roots, and will bear high fruits
    32: For from Jerusalem, a remnant shall go forth, and salvation from mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this
    33: For this reason, thus says the Lord about the king of the Assyrians: He will not enter this city, nor shoot an arrow into it, nor overtake it with a shield, nor dig a rampart all around it
    34: He will return on the road by which he arrived. And into this city, he will not enter, says the Lord
    35: And I will protect this city, so that I may save it for my own sake, and for the sake of David, my servant.
    36: Then the Angel of the Lord went forth and struck down, in the camp of the Assyrians, one hundred eighty-five thousand. And they arose in the morning, and behold, all these were dead bodies
    37: And Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, departed and went away. And he returned and lived at Nineveh
    38: And it happened that, as he was adoring his god in the temple of Nisroch, his sons, Adramelech and Sharezer, struck him with the sword. And they fled into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon, his son, reigned in his place

  Chapter 38.

    1: In those days Hezekiah became ill and was near death. And so, Isaiah, the son of Amoz, the prophet, entered to him, and he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Put your house in order, for you shall die, and you shall not live.
    2: And Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and he prayed to the Lord
    3: And he said: “I beg you, Lord, I beseech you, to remember how I walked before you in truth and with a whole heart, and that I have done what is good in your sight.” And Hezekiah wept with a great weeping
    4: And the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, saying
    5: “Go and say to Hezekiah: Thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father: I have heard your prayer, and I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your days
    6: And I will rescue you and this city from the hand of the king of the Assyrians, and I will protect it
    7: And this will be a sign for you from the Lord, that the Lord will do this word, which he has spoken
    8: Behold, I will cause the shadow of the lines, which has now descended on the sundial of Ahaz, to move in reverse for ten lines.” And so, the sun moved backward by ten lines, through the degrees by which it had descended
    9: The writing of Hezekiah, the king of Judah, after he had fallen ill and had recovered from his sickness
    10: “I said: In the middle of my days, I will go to the gates of Hell. So I sought the remainder of my years
    11: I said: I will not see the Lord God in the land of the living. I will no longer behold man, nor the habitation of rest
    12: My longevity has been taken away; it has been folded up and taken from me, like the tent of a shepherd. My life has been cut off, as if by a weaver. While I was still beginning, he cut me off. From morning until evening, you have marked out my limits
    13: I hoped, even until morning. Like a lion, so has he crushed all my bones. From morning until evening, you have marked my limits
    14: I will cry out, like a young swallow. I will meditate, like a dove. My eyes have been weakened by gazing upward. O Lord, I suffer violence! Answer in my favor
    15: What can I say, or what would he answer me, since he himself has done this? I will acknowledge to you all my years, in the bitterness of my soul
    16: O Lord, if such is life, and if the life of my spirit is of such a kind, may you correct me and may you cause me to live
    17: Behold, in peace my bitterness is most bitter. But you have rescued my soul, so that it would not perish. You have cast all my sins behind your back
    18: For Hell will not confess to you, and death will not praise you. Those who descend into the pit will not hope for your truth
    19: The living, the living, these will give praise to you, as I also do this day! The father will make the truth known to the sons
    20: O Lord, save me! And we will sing our psalms, all the days of our life, in the house of the Lord.
    21: Now Isaiah had ordered them to take a paste of figs, and to spread it like plaster over the wound, so that he would be healed
    22: And Hezekiah said, “What will be the sign that I may go up to the house of the Lord?

  Chapter 39.

    1: At that time, Merodach Baladan, the son of Baladan, the king of Babylon, sent letters and gifts to Hezekiah. For he had heard that he had fallen ill and had recovered
    2: And Hezekiah rejoiced over them, and he showed them the storehouses of his aromatic spices, and of the silver and gold, and of the perfumes and precious ointments, and all the repositories for his belongings, and all the things that were found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah did not show them
    3: Then Isaiah the prophet entered before king Hezekiah, and he said to him, “What did these men say, and from where did they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “They came to me from a far away land, from Babylon.
    4: And he said, “What did they see in your house?” And Hezekiah said: “They have seen all the things that are in my house. There was nothing that I did not show them among my treasures.
    5: And Isaiah said to Hezekiah: “Hear the word of the Lord of hosts
    6: Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house, and all that your fathers have stored up, even to this day, will be taken away to Babylon. There will be nothing left behind, says the Lord
    7: And your children, who will issue from you, whom you will produce, they will be taken away. And they will become eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.
    8: And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of the Lord which he has spoken is good.” And he said, “But let there be peace and truth in my days.

  Chapter 40.

    1: “Be consoled, be consoled, O my people!” says your God
    2: Speak to the heart of Jerusalem, and call out to her! For her malice has reached its end. Her iniquity has been forgiven. She has received double for all her sins from the hand of the Lord
    3: The voice of one crying out in the desert: “Prepare the way of the Lord! Make straight the paths of our God, in a solitary place
    4: Every valley will be exalted, and every mountain and hill will be brought low. And the crooked will be straightened, and the uneven will become level ways
    5: And the glory of the Lord will be revealed. And all flesh together will see that the mouth of the Lord has spoken.
    6: The voice of one saying, “Cry out!” And I said, “What should I cry out?” “All flesh is grass, and all its glory is like the flower of the field
    7: The grass has dried up, and the flower has fallen. For the Spirit of the Lord has blown over it. Truly, the people are like grass
    8: The grass has dried up, and the flower has fallen. But the Word of our Lord remains for eternity.
    9: You who evangelize Zion, climb a high mountain! You who evangelize Jerusalem, lift up your voice with strength! Lift it up! Do not be afraid! Say to the cities of Judah: “Behold, your God!
    10: Behold, the Lord God will arrive in strength, and his arm will rule. Behold, his reward is with him, and his work is before him
    11: He will pasture his flock like a shepherd. He will gather together the lambs with his arm, and he will lift them up to his bosom, and he himself will carry the very young
    12: Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and who has weighed the heavens with his palm? Who has suspended the mass of the earth with three fingers, and who has weighed the mountains on a balance and the hills on a scale
    13: Who has assisted the Spirit of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor and has revealed things to him
    14: With whom has he consulted? And who has instructed him, and taught him the path of justice, and guided him to knowledge, and revealed the way of understanding to him
    15: Behold, the nations are like a drop of water in a bucket, and they are considered as the smallest grain on a balance. Behold, the islands are like a little dust
    16: And Lebanon will not be sufficient to start a fire, and its animals will not be sufficient for a burnt offering
    17: All the nations in his sight are as if they did not exist, and they are considered by him as if they were nothingness and emptiness
    18: Therefore, to whom would you liken God? Or with what image would you replace him
    19: Should the workman cast a statue? Or has the goldsmith formed it with gold, or the silversmith with plates of silver
    20: He has chosen strong wood that will not decay. The skillful artisan seeks a way to set up an idol that cannot be moved
    21: Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been announced to you from the beginning? Have you not understood the foundations of the earth
    22: He is the One who sits upon the globe of the earth, and its inhabitants are like locusts. He extends the heavens as if they were nothing, and he spreads them out like a tent, in which to dwell
    23: He has brought those who examine what is secret to nothingness. He has brought the judges of the earth to emptiness
    24: And certainly, their stalk was neither planted, nor sown, nor rooted in the ground. He has suddenly blown across them, and they have withered, and a whirlwind will carry them away like chaff
    25: “And to whom would you compare me or equate me?” says the Holy One
    26: Lift up your eyes on high, and see who has created these things. He leads forth their army by number, and he calls them all by name. Because of the fullness of his strength and robustness and virtue, not one of them was left behind
    27: Why do you say this, O Jacob, and why do you speak this way, O Israel? “My way has been hidden from the Lord, and my judgment escaped notice by my God.
    28: Do you not know, or have you not heard? The Lord is the eternal God, who has created the limits of the earth. He does not diminish, and he does not struggle. Neither is his wisdom searchable
    29: It is he who gives strength to the weary, and it is he who increases fortitude and strength in those who are failing
    30: Servants will struggle and fail, and young men will fall into infirmity
    31: But those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will take up wings like eagles. They will run and not struggle. They will walk and not tire

End of day 214.