Day 344:

Reading James, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: James, servant of God and of our Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes of the dispersion, greetings
    2: My brothers, when you have fallen into various trials, consider everything a joy
    3: knowing that the proving of your faith exercises patience
    4: and patience brings a work to perfection, so that you may be perfect and whole, deficient in nothing
    5: But if anyone among you is in need of wisdom, let him petition God, who gives abundantly to all without reproach, and it shall be given to him
    6: But he should ask with faith, doubting nothing. For he who doubts is like a wave on the ocean, which is moved about by the wind and carried away
    7: then a man should not consider that he would receive anything from the Lord
    8: For a man who is of two minds is inconstant in all his ways
    9: Now a humble brother should glory in his exaltation
    10: and a rich one, in his humiliation, for he will pass away like the flower of the grass
    11: For the sun has risen with a scorching heat, and has dried the grass, and its flower has fallen off, and the appearance of its beauty has perished. So also will the rich one wither away, according to his paths
    12: Blessed is the man who suffers temptation. For when he has been proven, he shall receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him
    13: No one should say, when he is tempted, that he was tempted by God. For God does not entice toward evils, and he himself tempts no one
    14: Yet truly, each one is tempted by his own desires, having been enticed and drawn away
    15: Thereafter, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. Yet truly sin, when it has been consummated, produces death
    16: And so, do not choose to go astray, my most beloved brothers
    17: Every excellent gift and every perfect gift is from above, descending from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change, nor any shadow of alteration
    18: For by his own will he produced us through the Word of truth, so that we might be a kind of beginning among his creatures
    19: You know this, my most beloved brothers. So let every man be quick to listen, but slow to speak and slow to anger
    20: For the anger of man does not accomplish the justice of God
    21: Because of this, having cast away all uncleanness and an abundance of malice, receive with meekness the newly-grafted Word, which is able to save your souls
    22: So be doers of the Word, and not listeners only, deceiving yourselves
    23: For if anyone is a listener of the Word, but not also a doer, he is comparable to a man gazing into a mirror upon the face that he was born with
    24: and after considering himself, he went away and promptly forgot what he had seen
    25: But he who gazes upon the perfect law of liberty, and who remains in it, is not a forgetful hearer, but instead a doer of the work. He shall be blessed in what he does
    26: But if anyone considers himself to be religious, but he does not restrain his tongue, but instead seduces his own heart: such a one’s religion is vanity
    27: This is religion, clean and undefiled before God the Father: to visit orphans and widows in their tribulations, and to keep yourself immaculate, apart from this age

  Chapter 2.

    1: My brothers, within the glorious faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, do not choose to show favoritism toward persons
    2: For if a man has entered your assembly having a gold ring and splendid apparel, and if a poor man has also entered, in dirty clothing
    3: and if you are then attentive to the one who is clothed in excellent apparel, so that you say to him, “You may sit in this good place,” but you say to the poor man, “You stand over there,” or, “Sit below my footstool,
    4: are you not judging within yourselves, and have you not become judges with unjust thoughts
    5: My most beloved brothers, listen. Has not God chosen the poor in this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that God has promised to those who love him
    6: But you have dishonored the poor. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you through power? And are not they the ones who drag you to judgment
    7: Are not they the ones who blaspheme the good name which has been invoked over you
    8: So if you perfect the regal law, according to the Scriptures, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” then you do well
    9: But if you show favoritism to persons, then you commit a sin, having been convicted again by the law as transgressors
    10: Now whoever has observed the whole law, yet who offends in one matter, has become guilty of all
    11: For he who said, “You shall not commit adultery,” also said, “You shall not kill.” So if you do not commit adultery, but you kill, you have become a transgressor of the law
    12: So speak and act just as you are beginning to be judged, by the law of liberty
    13: For judgment is without mercy toward him who has not shown mercy. But mercy exalts itself above judgment
    14: My brothers, what benefit is there if someone claims to have faith, but he does not have works? How would faith be able to save him
    15: So if a brother or sister is naked and daily in need of food
    16: and if anyone of you were to say to them: “Go in peace, keep warm and nourished,” and yet not give them the things that are necessary for the body, of what benefit is this
    17: Thus even faith, if it does not have works, is dead, in and of itself
    18: Now someone may say: “You have faith, and I have works.” Show me your faith without works! But I will show you my faith by means of works
    19: You believe that there is one God. You do well. But the demons also believe, and they tremble greatly
    20: So then, are you willing to understand, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead
    21: Was not our father Abraham justified by means of works, by offering his son Isaac upon the altar
    22: Do you see that faith was cooperating with his works, and that by means of works faith was brought to fulfillment
    23: And so the Scripture was fulfilled which says: “Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.” And so he was called the friend of God
    24: Do you see that a man is justified by means of works, and not by faith alone
    25: Similarly also, Rahab, the harlot, was she not justified by works, by receiving the messengers and sending them out through another way
    26: For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead

  Chapter 3.

    1: My brothers, not many of you should choose to become teachers, knowing that you shall receive a stricter judgment
    2: For we all offend in many ways. If anyone does not offend in word, he is a perfect man. And he is then able, as if with a bridle, to lead the whole body around
    3: For so we put bridles into the mouths of horses, in order to submit them to our will, and so we turn their whole body around
    4: Consider also the ships, which, though they are great and may be driven by strong winds, yet they are turned around with a small rudder, to be directed to wherever the strength of the pilot might will
    5: So also the tongue certainly is a small part, but it moves great things. Consider that a small fire can set ablaze a great forest
    6: And so the tongue is like a fire, comprising all iniquity. The tongue, stationed in the midst of our body, can defile the entire body and inflame the wheel of our nativity, setting a fire from Hell
    7: For the nature of all beasts and birds and serpents and others is ruled over, and has been ruled over, by human nature
    8: But no man is able to rule over the tongue, a restless evil, full of deadly poison
    9: By it we bless God the Father, and by it we speak evil of men, who have been made in the likeness of God
    10: From the same mouth proceeds blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so
    11: Does a fountain emit, out of the same opening, both sweet and bitter water
    12: My brothers, can the fig tree yield grapes? Or the vine, figs? Then neither is salt water able to produce fresh water
    13: Who is wise and well-taught among you? Let him show, by means of good conversation, his work in the meekness of wisdom
    14: But if you hold a bitter zeal, and if there is contention in your hearts, then do not boast and do not be liars against the truth
    15: For this is not wisdom, descending from above, but rather it is earthly, beastly, and diabolical
    16: For wherever envy and contention is, there too is inconstancy and every depraved work
    17: But within the wisdom that is from above, certainly, chastity is first, and next peacefulness, meekness, openness, consenting to what is good, a plenitude of mercy and good fruits, not judging, without falseness
    18: And so the fruit of justice is sown in peace by those who make peace

  Chapter 4.

    1: Where do wars and contentions among you come from? Is it not from this: from your own desires, which battle within your members
    2: You desire, and you do not have. You envy and you kill, and you are unable to obtain. You argue and you fight, and you do not have, because you do not ask
    3: You ask and you do not receive, because you ask badly, so that you may use it toward your own desires
    4: You adulterers! Do you not know that the friendship of this world is hostile to God? Therefore, whoever has chosen to be a friend of this world has been made into an enemy of God
    5: Or do you think that Scripture says in vain: “The spirit which lives within you desires unto envy?
    6: But he gives a greater grace. Therefore he says: “God resists the arrogant, but he gives grace to the humble.
    7: Therefore, be subject to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you
    8: Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners! And purify your hearts, you duplicitous souls
    9: Be afflicted: mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your gladness into sorrow
    10: Be humbled in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you
    11: Brothers, do not choose to slander one another. Whoever slanders his brother, or whoever judges his brother, slanders the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge
    12: There is one lawgiver and one judge. He is able to destroy, and he is able to set free
    13: But who are you to judge your neighbor? Consider this, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go into that city, and certainly we will spend a year there, and we will do business, and we will make our profit,
    14: consider that you do not know what will be tomorrow
    15: For what is your life? It is a mist that appears for a brief time, and afterwards will vanish away. So what you ought to say is: “If the Lord wills,” or, “If we live,” we will do this or that
    16: But now you exult in your arrogance. All such exultation is wicked
    17: Therefore, he who knows that he ought to do a good thing, and does not do it, for him it is a sin

End of day 344.