Day 174:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The parables of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel
    2: in order to know wisdom and discipline
    3: to understand words of prudence, and to accept the instruction of doctrine, justice and judgment, and equity
    4: so as to give discernment to little ones, knowledge and understanding to adolescents
    5: By listening, the wise shall become wiser and the intelligent shall possess governments
    6: He shall turn his soul to a parable and to its interpretation, to the words of the wise and their enigmas
    7: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The foolish despise wisdom as well as doctrine
    8: Listen, my son, to the discipline of your father, and forsake not the law of your mother
    9: so that grace may be added to your head and a collar to your neck
    10: My son, if sinners should entice you, do not consent to them
    11: If they should say: “Come with us. We will lie in wait for blood. We will lay traps against the innocent, without cause
    12: Let us swallow him alive, like Hell, and whole, like one descending into the pit
    13: We will discover every precious substance. We will fill our houses with spoils
    14: Cast your lot with us. One purse will be for us all.
    15: My son, do not walk with them. Preclude your feet from their paths
    16: For their feet rush to evil, and they hurry to shed blood
    17: But a net is thrown in vain before the eyes of those who have wings
    18: Likewise, they lie in ambush against their own blood, and they undertake deceits against their own souls
    19: Thus, the ways of all those who are greedy seize the souls of those who possess
    20: Wisdom forewarns far and wide; she bestows her voice in the streets
    21: She cries out at the head of crowds; at the entrance of the gates of the city, she offers her words, saying
    22: “Little ones, how long will you choose to be childish, and how long will the foolish desire what is harmful to themselves, and how long will the imprudent hate knowledge
    23: Be converted by my correction. Lo, I will offer my spirit to you, and I will reveal my words to you
    24: For I called, and you refused. I extended my hand, and there was no one who watched
    25: You have despised all my counsels, and you have neglected my rebukes
    26: Similarly, I will ridicule you at your demise, and I will mock you, when that which you feared shall overcome you
    27: When sudden calamity rushes upon you, and your demise advances like a tempest, when tribulation and anguish overcome you
    28: then they will call to me, and I will not heed, they will arise in the morning, and not find me
    29: For they held hatred for discipline, and they would not accept the fear of the Lord
    30: they would not consent to my counsel, but they detracted from all of my corrections
    31: Therefore, they shall eat the fruit of their way, and they shall have their fill of their own counsels
    32: The loathing of the little ones shall destroy them, and the prosperity of the foolish shall perish them
    33: But whoever will listen to me shall rest without terror, and shall have full enjoyment of abundance, without fear of evils.

  Chapter 2.

    1: My son, if you would accept my words, and conceal my commandments within you
    2: so that your ears may listen to wisdom, then bend your heart in order to know prudence
    3: For if you would call upon wisdom and bend your heart to prudence
    4: if you will seek her like money, and dig for her as if for treasure
    5: then you will understand the fear of the Lord, and you will discover the knowledge of God
    6: For the Lord bestows wisdom, and out of his mouth, prudence and knowledge
    7: He will preserve the salvation of the righteous, and he will protect those who walk in simplicity
    8: serving the paths of justice, and guarding the ways of sanctity
    9: Then you shall understand justice and judgment, and equity, and every good path
    10: If wisdom is to enter into your heart, and if knowledge is to become pleasing to your soul
    11: then counsel must guard you, and prudence must serve you
    12: so that you may be rescued from the evil way, and from the man who speaks perversities
    13: from those who leave the straight path to walk in dark ways
    14: who rejoice when they have done evil, and who exult in the most wicked things
    15: Their ways are perverse, and their steps are infamous
    16: So may you be rescued from the foreign woman, and from the outsider, who softens her speech
    17: and who leaves behind the Guide of her youth
    18: and who has forgotten the covenant of her God. For her household inclines toward death, and her paths toward Hell
    19: All those who enter to her will not return again, nor will they take hold of the paths of life
    20: So may you walk in the good way, and keep to the difficult paths of the just
    21: For those who are upright shall live upon the earth, and the simple shall continue upon it
    22: Yet truly, the impious shall perish from the earth, and those who act unjustly shall be taken away from it

  Chapter 3.

    1: My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart guard my precepts
    2: For they shall set before you length of days, and years of life, and peace
    3: Let not mercy and truth abandon you: encircle them around your throat, and inscribe them on the tablets of your heart
    4: And so shall you discover grace and good discipline, in the sight of God and men
    5: Have confidence in the Lord with all your heart, and do not depend upon your own prudence
    6: In all your ways, consider him, and he himself will direct your steps
    7: Do not seem wise to yourself. Fear God, and withdraw from evil
    8: Certainly, it shall be health to your navel, and refreshment to your bones
    9: Honor the Lord with your substance, and give to him from the first of all your fruits
    10: and then your storehouses will be filled with abundance, and your presses shall overflow with wine
    11: My son, do not discard the discipline of the Lord, and do not fall away when you are corrected by him
    12: For whomever the Lord loves, he corrects, and just as a father does with a son, he wins him over
    13: Blessed is the man who finds wisdom and who advances to prudence
    14: Her acquisition is better than trading in silver, and her fruit is better than the first and purest gold
    15: She is more precious than all riches, and all that can be desired cannot prevail in comparison to her
    16: Length of days is at her right hand, and at her left hand is wealth and glory
    17: Her ways are beautiful ways, and all her paths are peaceful
    18: She is a tree of life to those who overtake her, and he who shall take hold of her is blessed
    19: The Lord founded the earth on wisdom. He secured the heavens with prudence
    20: By his wisdom, the abyss erupted and the clouds increased with dew
    21: My son, let not these things move away from your eyes. Preserve law as well as counsel
    22: And so shall there be life in your soul and grace in your voice
    23: Then you shall walk confidently in your way, and your feet will not stumble
    24: When you slumber, you shall not fear. When you rest, your sleep also will be sweet
    25: Do not fear unexpected terror, nor the power of the impious falling upon you
    26: For the Lord will be at your side, and he will guard your feet, so that you may not be seized
    27: Do not prevent him who is able from doing good. When you are able, do good yourself too
    28: Do not say to your friend: “Go away, and then return. Tomorrow I will give to you.” When you are able to do so, give in the present
    29: Do not undertake evil against your friend, even though he has trust in you
    30: Do not contend against a man without cause, even though he has done no evil to you
    31: Do not rival an unjust man, and do not imitate his ways
    32: For everyone who ridicules is an abomination to the Lord, and his communication is for the simple
    33: Destitution in the house of the impious is from the Lord. But the habitations of the just shall be blessed
    34: He will ridicule those who ridicule, but he will bestow grace upon the mild
    35: The wise will possess glory. The exaltation of the foolish is disgraceful

  Chapter 4.

    1: Listen, sons, to the discipline of a father, and pay attention, so that you may know prudence
    2: I will bestow upon you a good gift. Do not relinquish my law
    3: For I, too, was the son of my father, tender and an only son in the sight of my mother
    4: And he taught me, and he also said: “Let your heart accept my words. Keep my precepts, and you shall live
    5: Obtain wisdom, obtain prudence. May you neither forget, nor turn away from, the words of my mouth
    6: Do not send her away, and she will guard you. Love her, and she will preserve you
    7: The beginning of wisdom is to obtain wisdom, and, with all that you possess, to acquire prudence
    8: Grasp her, and she will exalt you. You will be glorified by her, when you have embraced her
    9: She will bestow upon your head an increase in graces, and she will protect you with a noble crown
    10: Listen, my son, and accept my words, so that years of life may be multiplied for you
    11: I will demonstrate to you the way of wisdom. I will lead you along the paths of equity
    12: When you have entered by these, your steps will not be constrained, and when running, you will have no obstacle
    13: Take hold of discipline. Do not dismiss it. Guard it, for it is your life
    14: Do not delight in the paths of the impious, nor permit the way of evil-doers to please you
    15: Take flight from it. Do not pass close to it. Turn away and abandon it
    16: For they do not sleep, unless they have done evil. And their sleep is quickly taken away from them, unless they have overthrown
    17: They eat the bread of impiety, and they drink the wine of iniquity
    18: But the path of the just is like a shining light: it advances and increases, even to the day of completion
    19: The way of the impious is darkened. They do not know where they may fall
    20: My son, pay attention to my sermons, and incline your ear to my eloquent words
    21: Let them not recede from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart
    22: For they are life to those who find them and health to all that is flesh
    23: Preserve your heart with all watchfulness, for life proceeds from this
    24: Remove from yourself a corrupt mouth, and let detracting lips be far from you
    25: Let your eyes look straight ahead, and let your eyelids precede your steps
    26: Direct the path of your feet, and all your ways shall be secure
    27: Turn aside, neither to the right, nor to the left; yet turn your foot away from evil. For the Lord knows the ways that are on the right, and truly, those that are on the left are perverse. But he himself will make your courses straight. Then your journey will advance in peace

End of day 174.