Day 57:

Reading Judges, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now Abimelech, the son of Jerubbaal, went to Shechem, to his maternal brothers, and he spoke to them, and to all the relatives of the house of his maternal grandfather, saying
    2: “Speak to all the men of Shechem: Which is better for you: that seventy men, all the sons of Jerubbaal, should rule over you, or that one man should rule over you? And consider also that I am your bone and your flesh.
    3: And his maternal brothers spoke about him to all the men of Shechem, all these words, and they inclined their hearts after Abimelech, saying, “He is our brother.
    4: And they gave to him the weight of seventy silver coins from the shrine of Baal-berith. With this, he hired for himself indigent and wandering men, and they followed him
    5: And he went to his father’s house in Ophrah, and he killed his brothers, the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men, upon one stone. And there remained only Joatham, the youngest son of Jerubbaal, and he was in hiding
    6: Then all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the families of the city of Millo, and they went and appointed Abimelech as king, beside the oak that stood at Shechem
    7: When this had been reported to Jotham, he went and stood at the top of Mount Gerizim. And lifting up his voice, he cried out and said: “Listen to me, men of Shechem, so that God may listen to you
    8: The trees went to anoint a king over themselves. And they said to the olive tree, ‘Reign over us.
    9: And it responded, ‘How could I abandon my fatness, which both gods and men make use of, and depart to be promoted among the trees?
    10: And the trees said to the fig tree, ‘Come and accept royal power over us.
    11: And it responded to them, ‘How could I abandon my sweetness, and my very sweet fruits, and depart to be promoted among the other trees?
    12: And the trees said to the vine, ‘Come and reign over us.
    13: And it responded to them, ‘How could I abandon my wine, which gives joy to God and men, and be promoted among the other trees?
    14: And all the trees said to the bramble, ‘Come and reign over us.
    15: And it responded to them: ‘If truly you would appoint me as king, come and rest under my shadow. But if you are not willing, let fire go forth from the bramble, and let it devour the cedars of Lebanon.’ 
    16: So now, if you are upright and without sin in appointing Abimelech as a king over you, and if you have acted well with Jerubbaal, and with his house, and if you have repaid, in turn, the benefits of him who fought on your behalf
    17: and who gave his life to dangers, so that he might rescue you from the hand of Midian
    18: though you now have risen up against my father’s house, and have killed his sons, seventy men, upon one stone, and have appointed Abimelech, the son of his handmaid, as a king over the inhabitants of Shechem, since he is your brother
    19: if therefore you are upright and have acted without fault with Jerubbaal and his house, then you should rejoice on this day in Abimelech, and he should rejoice in you
    20: But if you have acted perversely, may fire go forth from him and consume the inhabitants of Shechem and the town of Millo. And may fire go forth from the men of Shechem and from the town of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
    21: And when he had said these things, he fled and went away to Beer. And he lived in that place, out of fear of Abimelech, his brother
    22: And so Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years
    23: And the Lord put a very grievous spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem, who began to detest him
    24: and to place blame for the crime of the killing of the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, and for the shedding of their blood, upon Abimelech, their brother, and upon the rest of the leaders of the Shechemites, who assisted him
    25: And they stationed an ambush against him at the summit of the mountains. And while they were waiting for his arrival, they committed robberies, taking spoils from those passing by. And this was reported to Abimelech
    26: Now Gaal, the son of Ebed, went with his brothers, and crossed over to Shechem. And the inhabitants of Shechem, uplifted by his arrival
    27: departed into the fields, laying waste to the vineyards, and trampling the grapes. And while singing and dancing, they entered into the shrine of their god. And while feasting and drinking, they cursed Abimelech
    28: And Gaal, the son of Ebed, cried out: “Who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubbaal, who has appointed Zebul, his servant, as ruler over the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem? Why then should we serve him
    29: I wish that someone would set this people under my hand, so that I might take away Abimelech from their midst.” And it was told to Abimelech, “Gather the multitude of an army, and approach.
    30: For Zebul, the ruler of the city, upon hearing the words of Gaal, the son of Ebed, became very angry
    31: And he sent messengers secretly to Abimelech, saying: “Behold, Gaal, the son of Ebed, has arrived at Shechem with his brothers, and he has set the city against you
    32: And so, rise up in the night, with the people who are with you, and lie hidden in the field
    33: And at first light in the morning, as the sun is rising, rush upon the city. And when he goes out against you, with his people, do to him what you are able to do.
    34: And so Abimelech rose up, with all his army, by night, and he set ambushes near Shechem in four places
    35: And Gaal, the son of Ebed, went out, and he stood at the entrance to the gate of the city. Then Abimelech rose up, and all the army with him, from the places of the ambushes
    36: And when Gaal had seen the people, he said to Zebul, “Behold, a multitude is descending from the mountains.” And he responded to him, “You are seeing the shadows of the mountains, as if they were the heads of men, and so you are being deceived by this error.
    37: Again, Gaal said, “Behold, a people is descending from the middle of the land, and one company is arriving by the way that looks towards the oak.
    38: And Zebul said to him: “Where is your mouth now, with which you said, ‘Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?’ Is this not the people that you were despising? Go out and fight against him.
    39: Therefore, Gaal went out, with the people of Shechem watching, and he fought against Abimelech
    40: who pursued him, fleeing, and drove him into the city. And many were cut down on his side, even to the gate of the city
    41: And Abimelech made camp at Arumah. But Zebul expelled Gaal and his companions from the city, and he would not permit them to remain in it
    42: Therefore, on the following day, the people departed into the field. And when this had been reported to Abimelech
    43: he took his army, and divided it into three companies, and he placed ambushes in the fields. And seeing that the people had departed from the city, he rose up and rushed upon them
    44: along with his own company, assaulting and besieging the city. But the two other companies pursued the enemies scattered in the field
    45: Now Abimelech assaulted the city all that day. And he seized it, and he killed its inhabitants, and he destroyed it, so much so that he scattered salt in it
    46: And when those living in the tower of Shechem had heard about this, they entered the temple of their god, Berith, where they had formed a covenant with him. And it was because of this, that the place had taken its name. And it was greatly fortified
    47: Abimelech, also hearing that the men of the tower of Shechem had joined together
    48: ascended to mount Zalmon, with all his people. And taking an axe, he cut down the branch of a tree. And laying it on his shoulder, and carrying it, he said to his companions, “What you see me do, you must do quickly.
    49: And so, eagerly cutting down branches from the trees, they followed their leader. And surrounding the fortified place, they set it on fire. And so it happened that, by smoke and fire, one thousand persons died, men and women together, the occupants of the tower of Shechem
    50: Then Abimelech, setting out from there, arrived at the town of Thebez, which he surrounded and besieged with his army
    51: Now there was, in the midst of the city, a high tower, to which men and women were fleeing together, with all the leaders of the city. And, having very strongly sealed the gate, they were standing on the roof of the tower to defend themselves
    52: And Abimelech, drawing near the tower, fought valiantly. And approaching the gate, he strove to set it on fire
    53: And behold, one woman, throwing a fragment of a millstone from above, struck the head of Abimelech, and broke his skull
    54: And he quickly called to his armor bearer, and said to him, “Draw your sword and strike me, otherwise it may be said that I was slain by a woman.” And, doing as he was ordered, he killed him
    55: And when he was dead, all those of Israel who were with him returned to their homes
    56: And so did God repay the evil that Abimelech had done against his father by killing his seventy brothers
    57: The Shechemites also were given retribution for what they had done, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerubbaal, fell upon them

  Chapter 10.

    1: After Abimelech, a leader rose up in Israel, Tola, the son of Puah, the paternal uncle of Abimelech, a man of Issachar, who lived in Shamir on mount Ephraim
    2: And he judged Israel for twenty-three years, and he died and was buried at Shamir
    3: After him succeeded Jair, a Gileadite, who judged Israel for twenty-two years
    4: having thirty sons sitting upon thirty young donkeys, and who were leaders of thirty cities, which from his name were called Havvoth Jair, that is, the towns of Jair, even to the present day, in the land of Gilead
    5: And Jair died, and he was buried in the place which is called Kamon
    6: But the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, joining new sins to old, and they served idols, the Baals and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria and Sidon, and of Moab and the sons of Ammon, and the Philistines. And they abandoned the Lord, and they did not worship him
    7: And the Lord, becoming angry against them, delivered them into the hands of the Philistines and the sons of Ammon
    8: And they were afflicted and vehemently oppressed for eighteen years, all who were living beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead
    9: to such a great extent that the sons of Ammon, crossing over the Jordan, laid waste to Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim. And Israel was exceedingly afflicted
    10: And crying out to the Lord, they said: “We have sinned against you. For we have forsaken the Lord our God, and we have served the Baals.
    11: And the Lord said to them: “Did not the Egyptians, and the Amorites, and the sons of Ammon, and the Philistines
    12: and also the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Canaan, oppress you, and so you cried out to me, and I rescued you from their hand
    13: And yet you have forsaken me, and you have worshipped foreign gods. For this reason, I will not continue to free you any more
    14: Go, and call upon the gods whom you have chosen. Let them free you in the time of anguish.
    15: And the sons of Israel said to the Lord: “We have sinned. You may repay us in whatever way pleases you. Yet free us now.
    16: And saying these things, they cast out all the idols of the foreign gods from their regions, and they served the Lord God. And he was touched by their miseries
    17: And then the sons of Ammon, shouting out together, pitched their tents in Gilead. And the sons of Israel gathered together against them, and they made camp at Mizpah
    18: And the leaders of Gilead said to one another, “Whoever among us will be the first to begin to contend against the sons of Ammon, he shall be the leader of the people of Gilead.

  Chapter 11.

    1: At that time, there was a Gileadite, Jephthah, a very strong man and a fighter, the son of a kept woman, and he was born of Gilead
    2: Now Gilead had a wife, from whom he received sons. And they, after growing up, cast out Jephthah, saying, “You cannot inherit in the house of our father, because you were born of another mother.
    3: And so, fleeing and avoiding them, he lived in the land of Tob. And men who were indigent and robbers joined with him, and they followed him as their leader
    4: In those days, the sons of Ammon fought against Israel
    5: And being steadfastly attacked, the elders of Gilead traveled so that they might obtain for their assistance Jephthah, from the land of Tob
    6: And they said to him, “Come and be our leader, and fight against the sons of Ammon.
    7: But he answered them: “Are you not the ones who hated me, and who cast me out of my father’s house? And yet now you come to me, compelled by necessity?
    8: And the leaders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “But it is due to this necessity that we have approached you now, so that you may set out with us, and fight against the sons of Ammon, and be commander over all who live in Gilead.
    9: Jephthah also said to them: “If you have come to me so that I may fight for you against the sons of Ammon, and if the Lord will deliver them into my hands, will I truly be your leader?
    10: They answered him, “The Lord who hears these things is himself the Mediator and the Witness that we shall do what we have promised.
    11: And so Jephthah went with the leaders of Gilead, and all the people made him their leader. And Jephthah spoke all his words, in the sight of the Lord, at Mizpah
    12: And he sent messengers to the king of the sons of Ammon, who said on his behalf, “What is there between you and me, that you would approach against me, so that you might lay waste to my land?
    13: And he responded to them, “It is because Israel took my land, when he ascended from Egypt, from the parts of Arnon, as far as the Jabbok and the Jordan. Now therefore, restore these to me with peace.
    14: And Jephthah again commissioned them, and he ordered them to say to the king of Ammon
    15: “Jephthah says this: Israel did not take the land of Moab, nor the land of the sons of Ammon
    16: But when they ascended together from Egypt, he walked through the desert as far as the Red Sea, and he went into Kadesh
    17: And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, ‘Permit me to pass through your land.’ But he was not willing to agree to his petition. Likewise, he sent to the king of Moab, who also refused to offer him passage. And so he delayed in Kadesh
    18: and he circled around the side of the land of Edom and the land of Moab. And he arrived opposite the eastern region of the land of Moab. And he made camp across the Arnon. But he was not willing to enter the borders of Moab. (Of course, Arnon is the border of the land of Moab.
    19: And so Israel sent messengers to Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who was living at Heshbon. And they said to him, “Permit me to cross through your land as far as the river.
    20: But he, too, despising the words of Israel, would not permit him to cross through his borders. Instead, gathering an innumerable multitude, he went out against him at Jahaz, and he resisted strongly
    21: But the Lord delivered him, with his entire army, into the hands of Israel. And he struck him down, and he possessed all the land of the Amorite, the inhabitant of that region
    22: with all its parts, from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan
    23: Therefore, it was the Lord, the God of Israel, who overthrew the Amorites, by means of his people Israel fighting against them. And now you wish to possess his land
    24: Are not the things that your god Chemosh possesses owed to you by right? And so, what the Lord our God has obtained by victory falls to us as a possession
    25: Or are you, perhaps, better than Balak, the son of Zippor, the king of Moab? Or are you able to explain what his argument was against Israel, and why he fought against him
    26: And though he has lived in Heshbon, and its villages, and in Aroer, and its villages, and in all the cities near the Jordan for three hundred years, why have you, for such long a time, put forward nothing about this claim
    27: Therefore, I am not sinning against you, but you are doing evil against me, by declaring an unjust war against me. May the Lord be the Judge and the Arbiter this day, between Israel and the sons of Ammon.
    28: But the king of the sons of Ammon was not willing to agree to the words of Jephthah that he commissioned by the messengers
    29: Therefore, the Spirit of the Lord rested upon Jephthah, and circling around Gilead, and Manasseh, and also Mizpah of Gilead, and crossing from there to the sons of Ammon
    30: he made a vow to the Lord, saying, “If you will deliver the sons of Ammon into my hands
    31: whoever will be the first to depart from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the sons of Ammon, the same will I offer as a holocaust to the Lord.
    32: And Jephthah crossed to the sons of Ammon, so that he might fight against them. And the Lord delivered them into his hands
    33: And he struck them down from Aroer, as far as the entrance to Minnith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel, which is covered with vineyards, in an exceedingly great slaughter. And the sons of Ammon were humbled by the sons of Israel
    34: But when Jephthah returned to Mizpah, to his own house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and dances. For he had no other children
    35: And upon seeing her, he tore his garments, and he said: “Alas, my daughter! You have cheated me, and you yourself have been cheated. For I opened my mouth to the Lord, and I can do nothing else.
    36: And she answered him, “My father, if you have opened your mouth to the Lord, do to me whatever you have promised, since victory has been granted to you, as well as vengeance against your enemies.
    37: And she said to her father: “Grant to me this one thing, which I request. Permit me, that I may wander the hillsides for two months, and that I may mourn my virginity with my companions.
    38: And he answered her, “Go.” And he released her for two months. And when she had departed with her friends and companions, she wept over her virginity in the hillsides
    39: And when the two months expired, she returned to her father, and he did to her just as he had vowed, though she knew no man. From this, the custom grew up in Israel, and the practice has been preserved
    40: such that, after each year passes, the daughters of Israel convene as one, and they lament the daughter of Jephthah, the Gileadite, for four days

  Chapter 12.

    1: And behold, a sedition rose up in Ephraim. Then, while passing by toward the north, they said to Jephthah: “When you were going to fight against the sons of Ammon, why were you unwilling to summon us, so that we might go with you? Therefore, we will burn down your house.
    2: And he answered them: “I and my people were in a great conflict against the sons of Ammon. And I called you, so that you might offer assistance to me. And you were not willing to do so
    3: And discerning this, I put my life in my own hands, and I crossed to the sons of Ammon, and the Lord delivered them into my hands. What am I guilty of, that you would rise up in battle against me?
    4: And so, calling to himself all the men of Gilead, he fought against Ephraim. And the men of Gilead struck down Ephraim, because he had said, “Gilead is a fugitive from Ephraim, and he lives in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
    5: And the Gileadites occupied the fords of the Jordan, along which Ephraim was to return. And when anyone from the number of Ephraim had arrived, fleeing, and had said, “I beg that you permit me to pass,” the Gileadites would say to him, “Could you be an Ephraimite?” And if he said, “I am not,
    6: they would ask him, then say ‘Shibboleth,’ which is translated as ‘ear of grain.’ But he would answer ‘Sibboleth,’ not being able to express the word for an ear of grain in the same letters. And immediately apprehending him, they would cut his throat, at the same crossing point of the Jordan. And in that time of Ephraim, forty-two thousand fell
    7: And so Jephthah, the Gileadite, judged Israel for six years. And he died, and he was buried in his city in Gilead
    8: After him, Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel
    9: He had thirty sons, and the same number of daughters, whom he sent away to be given to husbands. And he accepted wives for his sons of the same number, bringing them into his house. And he judged Israel for seven years
    10: And he died, and he was buried in Bethlehem
    11: After him succeeded Elon, a Zebulunite. And he judged Israel for ten years
    12: And he died, and he was buried in Zebulun
    13: After him, Abdon, the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel
    14: And he had forty sons, and from them thirty grandsons, all riding upon seventy young donkeys. And he judged Israel for eight years
    15: And he died, and he was buried at Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim, on the mountain of Amalek

End of day 57.