Day 53:

Reading Joshua, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Now this lot fell to the tribe of Manasseh, since he is the firstborn of Joseph: to Machir, the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, who was a fighting man, and he had as a possession Gilead and Bashan
    2: and to the rest of the sons of Manasseh, according to their families: to the sons of Abiezer, and to the sons of Helek, and to the sons of Asriel, and to the sons of Shechem, and to the sons of Hepher, and to the sons of Shemida. These are the sons of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, the males, by their families
    3: Yet truly, Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but only daughters, whose names are these: Mahlah and Noah and Hoglah and Milcah and Tirzah
    4: And they went before the sight of Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the leaders, saying: “The Lord instructed by the hand of Moses that a possession ought to be given to us, in the midst of our brothers.” And so, he gave to them, in accord with the order of the Lord, a possession in the midst of the brothers of their father
    5: And by lot, there fell ten portions to Manasseh, aside from the land of Gilead and Bashan beyond the Jordan
    6: And so the daughters of Manasseh possessed an inheritance in the midst of his sons. But the land of Gilead fell by lot to the sons of Manasseh that were left
    7: And the border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethath, which looks out toward Shechem. And it goes out, to the right, beside the inhabitants of the Fountain of Tappuah
    8: For by lot, there also fell to Manasseh the land of Tappuah, which is beside the borders of Manasseh, and which belongs to the sons of Ephraim
    9: And the border descends to the Valley of Reeds, to the south of the torrent of the cities of Ephraim, which are in the midst of the cities of Manasseh. The border of Manasseh is to the north of the torrent, and its exit extends to the sea
    10: So it is that the possession of Ephraim is in the south, and that of Manasseh is in the north, and both are enclosed by the sea, and they are joined together by the tribe of Asher to the north, and by the tribe of Issachar to the east
    11: And the inheritance of Manasseh, in Issachar and in Asher, was Bethshean and its villages, and Ibleam with its villages, and the inhabitants of Dor, with their towns, likewise the inhabitants of Endor with their villages, and similarly the inhabitants of Taanach with their villages, and the inhabitants of Megiddo with their villages, and one third part of the city of Naphath
    12: The sons of Manasseh were not able to overthrow these cities, and so the Canaanite began to dwell in their land
    13: But after the sons of Israel had grown strong, they subdued the Canaanites, and made them their tributaries, but they did not kill them
    14: And the sons of Joseph spoke to Joshua, and they said, “Why have you given to me as a possession one lot and one portion, while I am of such a great multitude, and the Lord has blessed me?
    15: And Joshua said to them, “If you are a numerous people, go up into the forest, and cut out space for yourself in the land of the Perizzites and the Rephaim, since the possession of mount Ephraim is too narrow for you.
    16: And the sons of Joseph responded to him: “We are not able to ascend to the mountains, since the Canaanites, who live in the plains, in which are situated Bethshean, with its villages, and Jezreel, possessing the middle of the valley, use chariots of iron.
    17: And Joshua said to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasseh: “You are a numerous people, and you have great strength. You shall not have only one lot
    18: Instead, you shall cross to the mountain, and you shall cut down and clear out for yourselves space in which to live. And you shall be able to advance further, when you will have destroyed the Canaanite, who, as you say, has iron chariots and is very strong.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And all the sons of Israel gathered together at Shiloh, and there they stationed the Tabernacle of the Testimony. And the land was subjected to them
    2: But there remained seven tribes of the sons of Israel which had not yet received their possessions
    3: And Joshua said to them: “For how long will you draw back in idleness, and not enter to possess the land, which the Lord, the God of your fathers, has given to you
    4: Select three men from each tribe, so that I may send them, and they may go forth and circle through the land, and may describe it according to the number of each multitude, and may bring back to me what they have written down
    5: Divide the land for yourselves into seven parts. Let Judah be its bounds on the southern side, and the house of Joseph to the north
    6: The land that is in the middle, between these, write it down in seven parts. And you shall come to me, so that I may cast lots for you about this, before the Lord your God
    7: But there is no portion among you for the Levites. Instead, the priesthood of the Lord is their inheritance. And Gad and Reuben, and the one half tribe of Manasseh, have already received their possessions beyond the Jordan in the eastern region, which Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave to them.
    8: And when the men had risen up, so that they might go out to describe the land, Joshua instructed them, saying, “Circle through the land, and describe it, and return to me, so that I may cast lots for you about this, before the Lord, in Shiloh.
    9: And so they went out. And surveying it, they divided it into seven parts, writing it in a book. And they returned to Joshua, to the camp at Shiloh
    10: And he cast lots before the Lord, at Shiloh, and he divided the land to the sons of Israel, in seven parts
    11: And the first lot went to the sons of Benjamin, by their families, so that they would possess the land between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph
    12: And their border toward the north was from the Jordan, continuing on, near the side of Jericho in the northern region, and from there, ascending toward the west to the mountains, and extending to the wilderness of Bethaven
    13: And it continues to the south beside Luz, which is Bethel. And it descends into Ataroth-addar, at the mountain which is to the south of lower Beth-horon
    14: And it turns aside, circling toward the sea, to the south of the mountain which looks out toward Beth-horon, toward the southwest. And its exits are toward Kiriath-baal, which is also called Kiriath-jearim, a city of the sons of Judah. This is their region, toward the sea, in the west
    15: But to the south, the border goes on from the part of Kiriath-jearim toward the sea, and it continues as far as the Fountain of the waters of Nephtoah
    16: And it descends to that part of the mountain which looks out toward the Valley of the sons of Hinnom. And it is opposite the northern region, in the furthest part of the Valley of the Rephaim. And it descends into Geennom, (that is, the Valley of Hinnom,) near the side of the Jebusite toward the south. And it extends to the Fountain of Rogel
    17: crossing from there to the north, and going out to En-Shemesh, that is, to the Fountain of the Sun
    18: And it passes through to the hills that are opposite the region of the Ascent of Adummim. And it descends to Abenboen, that is, so the stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben. And it continues on, at the northern side, to the plains. And it descends into the flatlands
    19: And it advances before Beth-hoglah, to the north. And its exits are to the north, opposite the bay of the very salty sea, in the southern region at the end of the Jordan
    20: which is its border to the east. This is the possession of the sons of Benjamin, with their borders all around, and by their families
    21: And their cities were: Jericho and Beth-hoglah and the Abrupt Valley
    22: Beth-arabah and Zemaraim and Bethel
    23: and Avvim and Parah and Ophrah
    24: the town of Ammoni, and Ophni, and Geba: twelve cities, and their villages
    25: Gibeon and Ramah and Beeroth
    26: and Mizpeh and Chephirah and Mozah
    27: and Rekem, Irpeel, and Taralah
    28: and Zela, Haeleph, and Jebus, which is Jerusalem, Gibeah and Kiriath: fourteen cities, and their villages. This is the possession of the sons of Benjamin, according to their families

  Chapter 19.

    1: And the second lot went out, for the sons of Simeon by their families. And their inheritance was
    2: in the midst of the possession of the sons of Judah: Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah
    3: and Hazar-shual, Balah, and Ezem
    4: and Eltolad, Bethul, and Hormah
    5: and Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah
    6: and Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen: thirteen cities, and their villages
    7: Ain and Enrimmon, and Ether and Ashan: four cities, and their villages
    8: all villages around these cities, as far as Baalath-beer, the high place facing the southern region. This is the inheritance of the sons of Simeon, according to their families
    9: within the possession and lot of the sons of Judah, which was greater. And for this reason, the sons of Simeon had a possession in the midst of their inheritance
    10: And the third lot fell to the sons of Zebulun, by their families; and the limit of their possession was set as far as Sarid
    11: And it ascends from the sea and from Mareal. And it passes on to Dabbesheth, as far as the torrent, which is opposite Jokneam
    12: And it turns back from Sarid, to the east, to the end of Chisloth-tabor. And it goes out to Daberath, and it ascends opposite Japhia
    13: And from there, it continues to the eastern region of Gathhepher and Ethkazin. And goes out to Rimmon, Amthar, and Neah
    14: And it circles to the north at Hannathon. And its exits are at the Valley of Iphtahel
    15: and Kattath and Nahalal, and Shimron and Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities, and their villages
    16: This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, by their families, the cities and their villages
    17: The fourth lot went out to Issachar, by their families
    18: And his inheritance was: Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem
    19: and Hapharaim, and Shion, and Anaharath
    20: and Rabbith and Kishion, Ebe
    21: and Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez
    22: And its limit reaches to Tabor and Shahazumah and Beth-shemesh; and its exits shall be at the Jordan: sixteen cities, and their villages
    23: This is the possession of the sons of Issachar by their families, the cities and their villages
    24: And the fifth lot fell to the tribe of the sons of Asher, by their families
    25: And their border was: Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph
    26: and Allammelech, and Amad, and Mishal. And it extends even to Carmel by the sea, and Shihor, and Libnath
    27: And it turns back toward the east at Bethdagon. And it continues on as far as Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtahel, toward the north, at Beth-emek and Neiel. And it goes out to the left of Cabul
    28: and to Ebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, as far as the great Sidon
    29: And it turns back at Ramah, even to the very fortified city of Tyre, and even to Hosah. And its exits shall be at the sea, from the lot of Achzib
    30: and Ummah, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty-two cities, and their villages
    31: This is the possession of the sons of Asher, by their families, and the cities and their villages
    32: The sixth lot fell to the sons of Naphtali, by their families
    33: And its border begins from Heleph and Elon, into Zaanannim, and Adami, which is Nekeb, and Jabneel, as far as Lakkum. And its exits are as far as the Jordan
    34: And the border turns back to the west at Aznoth-tabor, and it goes out from there to Hukkok. And continues on to Zebulun, in the south, and to Asher, in the west, and to Judah, at the Jordan, toward the rising of the sun
    35: And the most fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer and Hammath, and Rakkath, and Chinnereth
    36: and Adamah and Ramah, Hazo
    37: and Kedesh and Edrei, Enhazo
    38: and Yiron and Migdalel, Horem and Bethanath, and Beth-shemesh: nineteen cities, and their villages
    39: This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, by their families, the cities and their villages
    40: The seventh lot went out to the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their families
    41: And the border of their possession was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Ir-shemesh, that is, the City of the Sun
    42: Sha-alabbin, and Aijalon, and Ithlah
    43: Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron
    44: Eltekeh, Gibbethon and Baalath
    45: and Jehud, and Bene and Berak, and Gath-Rimmon
    46: and Mejarkon and Rakkon, with a border that looks toward Joppa
    47: and there the last part is concluded. And the sons of Dan ascended and fought against Leshem, and they seized it. And they struck it with the mouth of the sword, and they possessed it, and they lived in it, calling it by the name of Leshem-Dan, according to the name of their father Dan
    48: This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their families, the cities and their villages
    49: And when he had completed dividing the land by lot to each one by their tribes, the sons of Israel gave a possession to Joshua, the son of Nun, in their midst
    50: in accord with the precept of the Lord, the city he requested, Timnath-Serah, on mount Ephraim. And he built up the city, and he lived in it
    51: These are the possessions which Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the leaders of the families and tribes of the sons of Israel divided by lot at Shiloh, before the Lord, at the door of the Tabernacle of the Testimony. And so did they divide the land

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Joshua, saying: “Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them
    2: Separate the cities of refuge, about which I spoke to you by the hand of Moses
    3: so that anyone who will have struck down a life unintentionally may flee to them. And so, he may be able to escape from the wrath of a close relative, who is an avenger of blood
    4: And when he will have fled to one of these cities, he shall stand before the gate of the city, and he shall speak to the ancients of that city, the things that prove him innocent. And so shall they receive him, and give him a place in which to live
    5: And if the avenger of blood will have pursued him, they shall not deliver him into his hands. For he struck down his neighbor unknowingly, one who was not proven to have been his enemy two or three days before
    6: And he shall live in that city, until he stands before judgment in order to render the facts of his case, and until the death of the high priest, whoever it will be in that time. Then the one who killed a man may return, and he may enter his own city and house, from which he had fled.
    7: And they decreed Kedesh in Galilee, at mount Naphtali, and Shechem, at mount Ephraim, and Kiriath-Arba, which is Hebron, at mount Judah
    8: And beyond the Jordan, opposite the eastern side of Jericho, they appointed Bezer, which is situated on the plain of the wilderness of the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth in Gilead of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan of the tribe of Manasseh
    9: These cities were established for all the sons of Israel, and for the new arrivals who were living among them, so that whoever had struck down a life unintentionally might flee to these, and not die at the hand of a close relative who desires to vindicate the blood that was shed, until he should stand before the people, in order to present his case

End of day 53.