Day 156:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['81', '82', '83', '84']:

  Chapter 81.

    1: A Psalm of Asaph. God has stood in the synagogue of gods, but, in their midst, he decides between gods
    2: How long will you judge unjustly and favor the faces of sinners
    3: Judge for the indigent and the orphan. Do justice to the humble and the poor
    4: Rescue the poor, and free the needy from the hand of the sinner
    5: They did not know and did not understand. They wander in darkness. All the foundations of the earth will be moved
    6: I said: You are gods, and all of you are sons of the Most High
    7: But you will die like men, and you will fall just like one of the princes
    8: Rise up, O God. Judge the earth. For you will inherit it with all the nations

  Chapter 82.

    1: A Canticle Psalm of Asaph
    2: O God, who will ever be like you? Do not be silent, and do not be unmoved, O God
    3: For behold, your enemies have sounded off, and those who hate you have carried out a head
    4: They have acted with malice in counsel over your people, and they have plotted against your holy ones
    5: They have said, “Come, let us scatter them from the nations and not allow the name of Israel to be remembered any longer.
    6: For they plotted unanimously. Joined together against you, they ordained a covenant
    7: the tabernacle of Edomites and Ishmaelites, and Moab and the Hagarites
    8: and Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek, the foreigners among the inhabitants of Tyre
    9: For even Assur comes with them. They have become the helpers of the sons of Lot
    10: Do to them as you did to Midian and Sisera, just as to Jabin at the torrent of Kishon
    11: They perished at Endor, and they became like the dung of the earth
    12: Set their leaders to be like Oreb and Zeeb, and Zebah and Zalmunna: all their leader
    13: who said, “Let us possess the Sanctuary of God for an inheritance.
    14: My God, set them like a wheel, and like stubble before the face of the wind
    15: Set them like a fire burning up the forest, and like a flame burning up the mountains
    16: So will you pursue them in your tempest, and disturb them in your wrath
    17: Fill their faces with shame, and they will seek your name, O Lord
    18: Let them be ashamed and troubled, from age to age, and let them be confounded and perish
    19: And let them know that the Lord is your name. You alone are the Most High in all the earth

  Chapter 83.

    1: Unto the end. For the wine and oil presses. A Psalm to the sons of Korah
    2: How beloved are your tabernacles, O Lord of hosts
    3: My soul longs and faints for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh have exulted in the living God
    4: For even the sparrow has found a home for himself, and the turtle-dove a nest for herself, where she may lay her young: your altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God
    5: Blessed are those who dwell in your house, O Lord. They will praise you from age to age
    6: Blessed is the man whose help is from you. In his heart, he is disposed to ascen
    7: from the valley of tears, from the place which he has determined
    8: For even the lawgiver will provide a blessing; they will go from virtue to virtue. The God of gods will be seen in Zion
    9: O Lord, God of hosts, hear my prayer. Pay attention, O God of Jacob
    10: O God, gaze upon our protector, and look upon the face of your Christ
    11: For one day in your courts is better than thousands elsewhere. I have chosen to be lowly in the house of my God, rather than to dwell in the tabernacles of sinners
    12: For God loves mercy and truth. The Lord will give grace and glory
    13: He will not withhold good things from those who walk in innocence. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man who hopes in you

  Chapter 84.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm to the sons of Korah
    2: O Lord, you have blessed your land. You have turned aside the captivity of Jacob
    3: You have released the iniquity of your people. You have covered all their sins
    4: You have mitigated all your wrath. You have turned aside from the wrath of your indignation
    5: Convert us, O God, our Savior, and turn your anger away from us
    6: Will you be angry with us forever? And will you extend your wrath from generation to generation
    7: O God, you will turn back and revive us. And your people will rejoice in you
    8: O Lord, reveal to us your mercy, and grant to us your salvation
    9: I will listen to what the Lord God may be saying to me. For he will speak peace to his people, and to his saints, and to those who are being converted to the heart
    10: So then, truly his salvation is near to those who fear him, so that glory may inhabit our land
    11: Mercy and truth have met each other. Justice and peace have kissed
    12: Truth has risen from the earth, and justice has gazed down from heaven
    13: For so will the Lord give goodness, and our earth will give her fruit
    14: Justice will walk before him, and he will set his steps upon the way

End of day 156.