Day 314:

Reading Romans, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called as an Apostle, separated for the Gospel of God
    2: which he had promised beforehand, through his Prophets, in the Holy Scriptures
    3: about his Son, who was made for him from the offspring of David according to the flesh
    4: the Son of God, who was predestined in virtue according to the Spirit of sanctification from the resurrection of the dead, our Lord Jesus Christ
    5: through whom we have received grace and Apostleship, for the sake of his name, for the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles
    6: from whom you also have been called by Jesus Christ
    7: To all who are at Rome, the beloved of God, called as saints. Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ
    8: Certainly, I give thanks to my God, through Jesus Christ, first for all of you, because your faith is being announced throughout the entire world
    9: For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit by the Gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I have kept a remembrance of yo
    10: always in my prayers, pleading that in some way, at some time, I may have a prosperous journey, within the will of God, to come to you
    11: For I long to see you, so that I may impart to you a certain spiritual grace to strengthen you
    12: specifically, to be consoled together with you through that which is mutual: your faith and mine
    13: But I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, (though I have been hindered even to the present time) so that I might obtain some fruit among you also, just as also among the other Gentiles
    14: To the Greeks and to the uncivilized, to the wise and to the foolish, I am in debt
    15: So within me there is a prompting to evangelize to you also who are at Rome
    16: For I am not ashamed of the Gospel. For it is the power of God unto salvation for all believers, the Jew first, and the Greek
    17: For the justice of God is revealed within it, by faith unto faith, just as it was written: “For the just one lives by faith.
    18: For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven over every impiety and injustice among those men who fend off the truth of God with injustice
    19: For what is known about God is manifest in them. For God has manifested it to them
    20: For unseen things about him have been made conspicuous, since the creation of the world, being understood by the things that were made; likewise his everlasting virtue and divinity, so much so that they have no excuse
    21: For although they had known God, they did not glorify God, nor give thanks. Instead, they became weakened in their thoughts, and their foolish heart was obscured
    22: For, while proclaiming themselves to be wise, they became foolish
    23: And they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of flying things, and of four-legged beasts, and of serpents
    24: For this reason, God handed them over to the desires of their own heart for impurity, so that they afflicted their own bodies with indignities among themselves
    25: And they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And they worshipped and served the creature, rather than the Creator, who is blessed for all eternity. Amen
    26: Because of this, God handed them over to shameful passions. For example, their females have exchanged the natural use of the body for a use which is against nature
    27: And similarly, the males also, abandoning the natural use of females, have burned in their desires for one another: males doing with males what is disgraceful, and receiving within themselves the recompense that necessarily results from their error
    28: And since they did not prove to have God by knowledge, God handed them over to a morally depraved way of thinking, so that they might do those things which are not fitting
    29: having been completely filled with all iniquity, malice, fornication, avarice, wickedness; full of envy, murder, contention, deceit, spite, gossiping
    30: slanderous, hateful toward God, abusive, arrogant, self-exalting, devisers of evil, disobedient to parents
    31: foolish, disorderly; without affection, without fidelity, without mercy
    32: And these, though they had known the justice of God, did not understand that those who act in such a manner are deserving of death, and not only those who do these things, but also those who consent to what is done

  Chapter 2.

    1: For this reason, O man, each one of you who judges is inexcusable. For by that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you do the same things that you judge
    2: For we know that the judgment of God is in accord with truth against those who do such things
    3: But, O man, when you judge those who do such things as you yourself also do, do you think that you will escape the judgment of God
    4: Or do you despise the riches of his goodness and patience and forbearance? Do you not know that the kindness of God is calling you to repentance
    5: But in accord with your hard and impenitent heart, you store up wrath for yourself, unto the day of wrath and of revelation by the just judgment of God
    6: For he will render to each one according to his works
    7: To those who, in accord with patient good works, seek glory and honor and incorruption, certainly, he will render eternal life
    8: But to those who are contentious and who do not acquiesce to the truth, but instead trust in iniquity, he will render wrath and indignation
    9: Tribulation and anguish are upon every soul of man that works evil: the Jew first, and also the Greek
    10: But glory and honor and peace are for all who do what is good: the Jew first, and also the Greek
    11: For there is no favoritism with God
    12: For whoever had sinned without the law, will perish without the law. And whoever had sinned in the law, will be judged by the law
    13: For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but rather it is the doers of the law who shall be justified
    14: For when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature those things which are of the law, such persons, not having the law, are a law unto themselves
    15: For they reveal the work of the law written in their hearts, while their conscience renders testimony about them, and their thoughts within themselves also accuse or even defend them
    16: unto the day when God shall judge the hidden things of men, through Jesus Christ, according to my Gospel
    17: But if you are called by name a Jew, and you rest upon the law, and you find glory in God
    18: and you have known his will, and you demonstrate the more useful things, having been instructed by the law
    19: you become confident within yourself that you are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness
    20: an instructor to the foolish, a teacher to children, because you have a type of knowledge and truth in the law
    21: As a result, you teach others, but you do not teach yourself. You preach that men should not steal, but you yourself steal
    22: You speak against adultery, but you commit adultery. You abominate idols, but you commit sacrilege
    23: You would glory in the law, but through a betrayal of the law you dishonor God
    24: (For because of you the name of God is being blasphemed among the Gentiles, just as it was written.
    25: Certainly, circumcision is beneficial, if you observe the law. But if you are a betrayer of the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision
    26: And so, if the uncircumcised keep the justices of the law, shall not this lack of circumcision be counted as circumcision
    27: And that which is by nature uncircumcised, if it fulfills the law, should it not judge you, who by the letter and by circumcision are a betrayer of the law
    28: For a Jew is not he who seems so outwardly. Neither is circumcision that which seems so outwardly, in the flesh
    29: But a Jew is he who is so inwardly. And circumcision of the heart is in the spirit, not in the letter. For its praise is not of men, but of God

  Chapter 3.

    1: So then, what more is the Jew, or what is the usefulness of circumcision
    2: Much in every way: First of all, certainly, because the eloquence of God was entrusted to them
    3: But what if some of them have not believed? Shall their unbelief nullify the faith of God? Let it not be so
    4: For God is truthful, but every man is deceitful; just as it was written: “Therefore, you are justified in your words, and you will prevail when you give judgment.
    5: But if even our injustice points to the justice of God, what shall we say? Could God be unfair for inflicting wrath
    6: (I am speaking in human terms.) Let it not be so! Otherwise, how would God judge this world
    7: For if the truth of God has abounded, through my falseness, unto his glory, why should I still be judged as such a sinner
    8: And should we not do evil, so that good may result? For so we have been slandered, and so some have claimed we said; their condemnation is just
    9: What is next? Should we try to excel ahead of them? By no means! For we have accused all Jews and Greeks to be under sin
    10: just as it was written: “There is no one who is just
    11: There is no one who understands. There is no one who seeks God
    12: All have gone astray; together they have become useless. There is no one who does good; there is not even one
    13: Their throat is an open sepulcher. With their tongues, they have been acting deceitfully. The venom of asps is under their lips
    14: Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness
    15: Their feet are swift to shed blood
    16: Grief and unhappiness are in their ways
    17: And the way of peace they have not known
    18: There is no fear of God before their eyes.
    19: But we know that whatever the law speaks, it speaks to those who are in the law, so that every mouth may be silenced and the entire world may be subject to God
    20: For in his presence no flesh shall be justified by the works of the law. For knowledge of sin is through the law
    21: But now, without the law, the justice of God, to which the law and the prophets have testified, has been made manifest
    22: And the justice of God, through the faith of Jesus Christ, is in all those and over all those who believe in him. For there is no distinction
    23: For all have sinned and all are in need of the glory of God
    24: We have been justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus
    25: whom God has offered as a propitiation, through faith in his blood, to reveal his justice for the remission of the former offenses
    26: and by the forbearance of God, to reveal his justice in this time, so that he himself might be both the Just One and the Justifier of anyone who is of the faith of Jesus Christ
    27: So then, where is your self-exaltation? It is excluded. Through what law? That of works? No, but rather through the law of faith
    28: For we judge a man to be justified by faith, without the works of the law
    29: Is God of the Jews only and not also of the Gentiles? On the contrary, of the Gentiles also
    30: For One is the God who justifies circumcision by faith and uncircumcision through faith
    31: Are we then destroying the law through faith? Let it not be so! Instead, we are making the law stand

  Chapter 4.

    1: So then, what shall we say that Abraham had achieved, who is our father according to the flesh
    2: For if Abraham was justified by works, he would have glory, but not with God
    3: For what does Scripture say? “Abram believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.
    4: But for he who works, wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to debt
    5: Yet truly, for he who does not work, but who believes in him who justifies the impious, his faith is reputed unto justice, according to the purpose of the grace of God
    6: Similarly, David also declares the blessedness of a man, to whom God brings justice without works
    7: “Blessed are they whose iniquities have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered
    8: Blessed is the man to whom the Lord has not imputed sin.
    9: Does this blessedness, then, remain only in the circumcised, or is it even in the uncircumcised? For we say that faith was reputed to Abraham unto justice
    10: But then how was it reputed? In circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision
    11: For he received the sign of circumcision as a symbol of the justice of that faith which exists apart from circumcision, so that he might be the father of all those who believe while uncircumcised, so that it might also be reputed to them unto justice
    12: and he might be the father of circumcision, not only for those who are of circumcision, but even for those who follow the footsteps of that faith which is in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham
    13: For the Promise to Abraham, and to his posterity, that he would inherit the world, was not through the law, but through the justice of faith
    14: For if those who are of the law are the heirs, then faith becomes empty and the Promise is abolished
    15: For the law works unto wrath. And where there is no law, there is no law-breaking
    16: Because of this, it is from faith according to grace that the Promise is ensured for all posterity, not only for those who are of the law, but also for those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all before God
    17: in whom he believed, who revives the dead and who calls those things that do not exist into existence. For it is written: “I have established you as the father of many nations.
    18: And he believed, with a hope beyond hope, so that he might become the father of many nations, according to what was said to him: “So shall your posterity be.
    19: And he was not weakened in faith, nor did he consider his own body to be dead (though he was then almost one hundred years old), nor the womb of Sarah to be dead
    20: And then, in the Promise of God, he did not hesitate out of distrust, but instead he was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God
    21: knowing most fully that whatever God has promised, he is also able to accomplish
    22: And for this reason, it was reputed to him unto justice
    23: Now this has been written, that it was reputed to him unto justice, not only for his sake
    24: but also for our sake. For the same shall be reputed to us, if we believe in him who raised up our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead
    25: who was handed over because of our offenses, and who rose again for our justification

End of day 314.