Day 198:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['24', '25', '26', '27']:

  Chapter 24.

    1: Wisdom will praise her own mind, and she will be honored by God, and she will be glorified in the midst of her people
    2: And she will open her mouth in the churches of the Most High, and she will be glorified in the sight of his virtue
    3: And in the midst of her own people, she will be exalted. And she will be admired by the holy assembly
    4: And she will have praise within the multitude of the elect. And she will be blessed among the blessed. And she will say
    5: “I went forth from the mouth of the Most High, as the first-born before all creatures
    6: I caused an unfailing light to arise in the heavens. And I covered all the earth like a cloud
    7: I lived in the highest places, and my throne is in the pillar of a cloud
    8: I alone have encompassed the circuit of heaven, and have penetrated to the depths of the abyss, and have walked upon the waves of the sea
    9: and have stood upon the whole earth. And among every people
    10: and in every nation, I have held primacy
    11: And by virtue, I have tread upon the hearts of all, the great and the lowly. And I have sought my rest in all of them. And I will continue, as the inheritance of the Lord
    12: Then the Creator of all things instructed and spoke with me. And the One who created me rested in my tabernacle
    13: And he said to me: ‘Let your dwelling place be with Jacob, and let your inheritance be in Israel, for you shall take root among my elect.
    14: From the beginning, and before the world, I was created. And even unto the future world, I will not cease to exist. For I have ministered before him in the holy habitation
    15: And in this way, I was established in Zion. And likewise, in the holy city, I found rest. And my authority was in Jerusalem
    16: And I took root among an honorable people, within the portion of my God, within his inheritance. And so my abode is in the full assembly of the saints
    17: I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon and like a cypress on Mount Zion
    18: I was exalted like a palm tree in Kadesh and like a rose bush in Jericho
    19: I was exalted like a beautiful olive tree in the plains, and like a sycamore tree beside the waters along a wide road
    20: I gave off an aromatic fragrance like cinnamon or balsam. I produced a sweet odor like the best myrrh
    21: And I perfumed my dwelling place with sweet gum, and aromatic resin, and flower petals, and aloe, as well as the finest cedar from Lebanon. And my fragrance is like undiluted balsam
    22: I have extended my branches like a terebinth tree, and my branches are of honor and grace
    23: Like the vine, I have born the fruit of a sweet fragrance. And my flowers are the fruit of honor and integrity
    24: I am the mother of the beauty of love, and of fear, and of knowledge, and of holy hope
    25: All grace of the way and of the truth is in me. All hope of life and of virtue is in me
    26: Journey toward me, all you who desire me, and be filled by my harvest
    27: For my spirit is sweeter than honey, and my inheritance is better than honey and the honeycomb
    28: My memory is for the generations of all ages
    29: Whoever consumes me will hunger still. And whoever drinks me will thirst still
    30: Whoever listens to me will not be confounded. And whoever acts in me will not sin
    31: Whoever elucidates me will have eternal life.
    32: All this is a book of life, and a covenant of the Most High, and an acknowledgement of truth
    33: Moses commanded the law by the precepts of justice, and an inheritance to the house of Jacob, and the promises to Israel
    34: God appointed David as his servant, in order to raise up from him a most mighty King, who would sit upon the throne of honor forever
    35: It is he who fulfills wisdom, like the Phison river and the Tigris river in the first days
    36: It is he who fulfills understanding, like the  river Euphrates. It is he who multiplies understanding, like the river Jordan in the time of the harvest
    37: He sends forth discipline like the light, and he stands forth like the river Gehon in the time of the vintage
    38: He first had perfect knowledge of her, for a weaker one would not search for her
    39: For her thoughts abound like the sea, and her counsels abound like the great abyss
    40: “I, wisdom, have poured forth rivers
    41: I am like a brook leading to a river of immense waters. I am like a channel flowing from a river. And I went forth from Paradise like an aqueduct
    42: I said: I will irrigate my garden of plantings, and I will thoroughly water the fruits of my field
    43: And behold, my brook became overflowing, and my river drew near to the sea
    44: For I illuminate doctrine to all, like the first light. And I will announce doctrine, even to those who are far away
    45: I will reach to all the lower parts of the earth, and I will gaze upon all who sleep, and I will illuminate all who hope in the Lord
    46: Even now, I pour forth doctrine like prophecy. And even now, I bequeath doctrine to those who seek wisdom. And I will not cease from their progeny, even unto the holy time
    47: See how I have not labored for myself alone, but for all who are seeking truth!

  Chapter 25.

    1: My spirit is pleased with three things; these are approved in the sight of God and men
    2: the harmony of brothers, and the love of neighbors, and a husband and wife agreeing well together
    3: My soul hates three kinds of things; and I am greatly distressed over their souls
    4: an arrogant pauper, a wealthy liar, a foolish and senseless elder
    5: The things that you have not obtained in your youth, how will you find them in your old age
    6: How beautiful it is for a grey head to have judgment, and for elders to know counsel
    7: How beautiful it is for those who are aged to have wisdom, and for those who are honored to have understanding and counsel
    8: Great experience is the crown of the aged, and the fear of God is their glory
    9: I have magnified nine things, overlooked by the heart; and a tenth, I will declare to men with my tongue
    10: a man who finds joy in his children, and one who lives to see the undoing of his enemies
    11: Blessed is he who lives with a wise wife, and he who has not slipped with his tongue, and he who has not served those unworthy of himself
    12: Blessed is he who finds a true friend, and he who describes justice to an attentive ear
    13: How great is he who finds wisdom and knowledge! But there is no one above him who fears the Lord
    14: The fear of God has set itself above all things
    15: Blessed is the man to whom it has been given to have the fear of God. He who holds to it, to whom can he be compared
    16: The fear of God is the beginning of his love; and the beginning of faith has been joined closely to the same
    17: The sadness of the heart is every wound. And the wickedness of a wife is every malice
    18: And a man will choose any wound, but the wound of the heart
    19: and any wickedness, but the wickedness of a wife
    20: and any obstacle, but the obstacle of those who hate him
    21: and any vindication, but the vindication of his enemies
    22: There is no head worse than the head of a serpent
    23: and there is no anger above the anger of a wife. It would be more agreeable to abide with a lion or a dragon, than to live with a wicked wife
    24: A wicked wife changes her face. And she darkens her countenance like a bear. And she displays it like sackcloth. In the midst of her neighbors
    25: her husband groans, and hearing of this, he sighs a little
    26: All malice is brief compared to the malice of a wife. Let the fate of sinners fall upon her
    27: As climbing over sand is to the feet of the aged, so is a talkative wife to a quiet man
    28: You should not favor a woman’s beauty, and you should not desire a wife for her beauty
    29: The anger and disrespect and shame from a wife can be great
    30: The wife, if she has primacy, is set against her husband
    31: A wicked wife debases the heart, and saddens the face, and wounds the heart
    32: A wife who does not make her husband happy enfeebles the hands and weakens the knees
    33: The beginning of sin came from a woman; and through her, we all die
    34: You should not provide an exit to your water, not even a little; nor should you give permission for a wicked wife to exceed the limit
    35: If she will not walk at your hand, she will confound you in the sight of your enemies
    36: Tear her away from your body, lest she abuse you continually

  Chapter 26.

    1: Blessed is the husband of a good wife. For the number of his years is doubled
    2: A good wife delights her husband, and she will fill up the years of his life with peace
    3: A good wife is a good portion. She will be given the portion of those who fear God, like a man who has done good deeds
    4: But, rich or poor, with a good heart, his countenance will be cheerful at all times
    5: Of three things, my heart has been afraid, and at a fourth, my face has shown dread
    6: an accusation made by a city, and the gathering of a mob
    7: and a deceitful false accusation. All these are more grievous than death
    8: A jealous wife is a grief and a mourning to the heart
    9: In a jealous wife, there is a scourge of the tongue, which communicates with everyone
    10: Like a yoke of oxen being provoked, so also is a wicked wife. He who has hold of her is like one who has taken hold of a scorpion
    11: An inebriated wife is a great wrath. And her disgrace and indecency will not be covered
    12: The fornication of a wife will become known by the haughtiness of her eyes and by her eyelids
    13: So that her daughter will not also turn away, keep a strict watch; otherwise, having found an opportunity, she may enjoy herself
    14: Be wary of the irreverence of her eyes, and you should not wonder if she might disregard you
    15: Like a thirsty traveler, she will open her mouth to the fountain, and she will drink from every water nearby, and she will sit down beside every fencepost, and she will open her quiver to every arrow, until she becomes weary
    16: The grace of an attentive wife will delight her husband, and will fatten his bones
    17: Her discipline is a gift from God
    18: Such is an understanding and quiet wife. For there is no substitution for a well-instructed soul
    19: A holy and contrite wife is grace upon grace
    20: And no amount of money is equal to the value of a soul with self-restraint
    21: Like the sun rising over the world in the high places of God, so the beauty of a good wife is the adornment of her house
    22: Like a lamp shining atop a holy lampstand, so is the beauty of a face in the mature stage of life
    23: Like golden pillars upon bases of silver, so are the firm feet of a mature wife upon the soles of her feet
    24: Like everlasting foundations upon a solid rock, so are the commandments of God in the heart of a holy wife
    25: By two things, my heart is greatly saddened, and at a third, anger overwhelms me
    26: a man of war failing because of dire need, and an understanding man treated with contempt
    27: and anyone who crosses over from justice to sin. God has prepared such a one for the spear
    28: Two kinds of things have seemed difficult and dangerous to me: a merchant will not be easily freed from his negligence, and a shopkeeper will not be justified by the sins of his lips

  Chapter 27.

    1: Because of need, many have sinned. And whoever seeks to be enriched, averts his eye
    2: Like a post fixed in the middle of adjoining stones, so also will sin become wedged between selling and buying
    3: Sin will be crushed with the one who sins
    4: If you do not hold yourself steadfastly to the fear of the Lord, your house will be quickly overthrown
    5: Just as the dust remains when one shakes a sieve, so will the doubt of a man remain in his thoughts
    6: The furnace tests the potter’s vessels, and the trial of the tribulation tests just men
    7: As the pruning of a tree reveals its fruit, so does a word reveal the thoughts in the heart of a man
    8: You should not praise a man before he speaks; for such is the testing of men
    9: If you pursue justice, you will obtain it. And you will be clothed with justice, as with a long robe of honor. And you will live with justice. And justice will protect you continually. And on the day of reckoning, you will find a strong foundation
    10: Birds flock to their own kind. And truth will return to those who practice it
    11: The lion lies in wait for its prey continually. So also do sins lie in wait for those who work iniquity
    12: A holy man persists in wisdom like the sun. But a senseless man changes like the moon
    13: In the midst of the senseless, retain a word for the proper time. But be continually in the midst those who are thoughtful
    14: The discussions of sinners are hateful, and their laughter is a delight in sin
    15: The speech that swears many oaths will cause the hair of the head to stand upright; and its irreverence will cause the ears to be blocked
    16: The shedding of blood is in the quarrels of the arrogant; and their evil talk is grievous to hear
    17: Whoever discloses the secret of a friend breaks faith; and he will not find a friend for his soul
    18: Love your neighbor, and be united with him faithfully
    19: But if you disclose his secrets, you should not continue to follow after him
    20: For like a man who destroys his friend, so also is he who destroys the friendship of his neighbor
    21: And like someone releasing a bird from his hand, so have you abandoned your neighbor, and you will not obtain him again
    22: You should no longer seek him, for he is now far away; he has fled like a roe-deer from a snare. For his soul has been wounded
    23: You will no longer be able to bind his wound. For there may be a reconciliation from cursing
    24: But to disclose the secrets of a friend is the hopeless act of an unhappy soul
    25: One who winks with the eye fabricates iniquity, and no one will cast him aside
    26: In the sight of your eyes, he will sweeten his mouth, and he will admire your talk. But at the very end, he will pervert his mouth, and he will offer a scandal from your own words
    27: I have hated many things, but I have not done as he has done, and the Lord will hate him
    28: Whoever throws a stone straight up will find that it falls on his own head. And a deceitful wound will return to wound the deceitful
    29: And whoever digs a pit will fall into it. And whoever positions a stone against his neighbor will stumble over it. And whoever lays a trap for another will perish by it
    30: Whoever sets in motion a wicked plan will find that it rolls back over him, and he will not know from which direction it will arrive
    31: Mockery and derision are of the arrogant, and vengeance will lie in wait for them, like a lion
    32: Whoever enjoys the fall of the just will perish in a snare, and grief will consume them before they die
    33: Anger and fury are both abominable, and the sinful man will be held by them

End of day 198.