Day 324:

Reading 2-Corinthians, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Now, concerning the ministry that is done toward the saints, it is not necessary for me to write to you
    2: For I know your willing mind. I glory about you, concerning this, to the Macedonians. For Achaia has also been prepared, for the past year. And your example has inspired very many others
    3: Now I have sent the brothers, so that what we glory about concerning you might not be empty in this matter, in order that (as I have explained) you may be prepared
    4: Otherwise, if the Macedonians arrive with me and find you unprepared, we (not to mention you) would be ashamed in this matter
    5: Therefore, I considered it necessary to ask the brothers to go to you in advance and to prepare this blessing as promised, and in this way, you may be ready as a blessing, not as an excess
    6: But I say this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. And whoever sows with blessings shall also reap from blessings
    7: each one giving, just as he has determined in his heart, neither out of sadness, nor out of obligation. For God loves a cheerful giver
    8: And God is able to make every grace abound in you, so that, always having what you need in all things, you may abound unto every good work
    9: just as it was written: “He has distributed widely, he has given to the poor; his justice remains from age to age.
    10: And he who ministers seed to the sower will offer you bread to eat, and will multiply your seed, and will increase the growth of the fruits of your justice
    11: So then, having been enriched in all things, you may abound in all simplicity, which works thanksgiving to God through us
    12: For the ministration of this office not only supplies whatever the saints need, but also abounds through many thanksgivings in the Lord
    13: And so, through the evidence of this ministry, you glorify God by the obedience of your confession in the Gospel of Christ, and by the simplicity of your communion with them and with everyone
    14: and they offer prayers for you, being solicitous about you, because of the excellent grace of God within you
    15: Thanks be to God for his ineffable gift

  Chapter 10.

    1: But I myself, Paul, am begging you, through the meekness and modesty of Christ. I am certainly, by appearances, lowly among you, yet I have confidence in you, even while I am absent
    2: So I am petitioning you, lest I be bold, when present, with that bold confidence that I am considered to have by certain ones who judge us as if we were walking according to the flesh
    3: For though we walk in the flesh, we do not battle according to the flesh
    4: For the weapons of our battles are not carnal, yet still they are powerful with God, unto the destruction of fortifications: tearing down every counse
    5: and height that extols itself contrary to the wisdom of God, and leading every intellect into the captivity of obedience to Christ
    6: and standing ready to repudiate every disobedience, when your own obedience has been fulfilled
    7: Consider the things that are in accord with appearances. If anyone trusts that by these things he belongs to Christ, let him reconsider this within himself. For just as he belongs to Christ, so also do we
    8: And if I were even to glory somewhat more about our authority, which the Lord has given to us for your edification, and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed
    9: But let it not be said that I am scaring you by means of epistles
    10: For they say: “His epistles, indeed, are weighty and strong. But his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is contemptible.
    11: Let someone like this realize that whatever we are in word through epistles, while absent: we are much the same in deed, while present
    12: For we would not dare to interpose or compare ourselves with certain ones who commend themselves. But we measure ourselves by ourselves, and we compare ourselves with ourselves
    13: Thus, we will not glory beyond our measure, but rather according to the measure of the limit which God has measured out to us, a measure which extends even to you
    14: For we are not overextending ourselves, as if we are not able to reach as far as you are able. For we have gone even as far as you have in the Gospel of Christ
    15: We are not glorying immeasurably over the labors of others. Instead, we hold on to the hope of your growing faith, so as to be magnified in you, according to our own limits, but in abundance
    16: and even so as to evangelize in those places that are beyond you, not in order to glory in the measure of others, but rather in those things which have already been prepared
    17: But whoever glories, let him glory in the Lord
    18: For it is not he who commends himself who is approved, but rather he whom God commends

  Chapter 11.

    1: I wish that you would endure a small amount of my foolishness, so as to bear with me
    2: For I am jealous toward you, with the jealousy of God. And I have espoused you to one husband, offering you as a chaste virgin to Christ
    3: But I am afraid lest, as the serpent led astray Eve by his cleverness, so your minds might be corrupted and might fall away from the simplicity which is in Christ
    4: For if anyone arrives preaching another Christ, one whom we have not preached; or if you receive another Spirit, one whom you have not received; or another Gospel, one which you have not been given: you might permit him to guide you
    5: For I consider that I have done nothing less than the great Apostles
    6: For although I may be unskilled in speech, yet I am not so in knowledge. But, in all things, we have been made manifest to you
    7: Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself so that you would be exalted? For I preached the Gospel of God to you freely
    8: I have taken from other churches, receiving a stipend from them to the benefit of your ministry
    9: And when I was with you and in need, I was burdensome to no one. For the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied whatever was lacking to me. And in all things, I have kept myself, and I will keep myself, from being burdensome to you
    10: The truth of Christ is in me, and so this glorying shall not be broken away from me in the regions of Achaia
    11: Why so? Is it because I do not love you? God knows I do
    12: But what I am doing, I will continue to do, so that I may take away an opportunity from those who desire an opportunity by which they may glory, so as to be considered to be like us
    13: For false apostles, such as these deceitful workers, are presenting themselves as if they were Apostles of Christ
    14: And no wonder, for even Satan presents himself as if he were an Angel of light
    15: Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers present themselves as if they were ministers of justice, for their end shall be according to their works
    16: I say again. And let no one consider me to be foolish. Or, at least, accept me as if I were foolish, so that I also may glory a small amount
    17: What I am saying is not said according to God, but as if in foolishness, in this matter of glorying
    18: Since so many glory according to the flesh, I will glory also
    19: For you freely accept the foolish, though you yourselves claim to be wise
    20: For you permit it when someone guides you into servitude, even if he devours you, even if he takes from you, even if he is extolled, even if he strikes you repeatedly on the face
    21: I speak according to disgrace, as if we had been weak in this regard. In this matter, (I speak in foolishness) if anyone dares, I dare also
    22: They are Hebrews; so am I. They are Israelites; so am I. They are the offspring of Abraham; so am I
    23: They are the ministers of Christ (I speak as if I were less wise); more so am I: with many more labors, with numerous imprisonments, with wounds beyond measure, with frequent mortifications
    24: On five occasions, I received forty stripes, less one, from the Jews
    25: Three times, I was beaten with rods. One time, I was stoned. Three times, I was shipwrecked. For a night and a day, I was in the depths of the sea
    26: I have made frequent journeys, through dangerous waters, in danger of robbers, in danger from my own nation, in danger from the Gentiles, in danger in the city, in danger in the wilderness, in danger in the sea, in danger from false brothers
    27: with hardships and difficulties, with much vigilance, in hunger and thirst, with frequent fasts, in cold and nakedness
    28: and, in addition to these things, which are external: there is my daily earnestness and solicitude for all the churches
    29: Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is scandalized, and I am not being burned
    30: If it is necessary to glory, I will glory of the things that concern my weaknesses
    31: The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying
    32: At Damascus, the governor of the nation under Aretas the king, watched over the city of the Damascenes, so as to apprehend me
    33: And, through a window, I was let down along the wall in a basket; and so I escaped his hands

  Chapter 12.

    1: If it is necessary (though certainly not expedient) to glory, then I will next tell of visions and revelations from the Lord
    2: I know a man in Christ, who, more than fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I do not know, or out of the body, I do not know: God knows), was enraptured to the third heaven
    3: And I know a certain man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I do not know: God knows)
    4: who was enraptured into Paradise. And he heard words of mystery, which it is not permitted for man to speak
    5: On behalf of someone like this, I will glory. But on behalf of myself, I will not glory about anything, except my infirmities
    6: For even though I am willing to glory, I will not be foolish. But I will speak the truth. Yet I will do so sparingly, lest anyone may consider me to be anything more than what he sees in me, or anything more than what he hears from me
    7: And lest the greatness of the revelations should extol me, there was given to me a prodding in my flesh: an angel of Satan, who struck me repeatedly
    8: Because of this, three times I petitioned the Lord that it might be taken away from me
    9: And he said to me: “My grace is sufficient for you. For virtue is perfected in weakness.” And so, willingly shall I glory in my weaknesses, so that the virtue of Christ may live within me
    10: Because of this, I am pleased in my infirmity: in reproaches, in difficulties, in persecutions, in distresses, for the sake of Christ. For when I am weak, then I am powerful
    11: I have become foolish; you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you. For I have been nothing less than those who claim to be above the measure of Apostles, even though I am nothing
    12: And the seal of my Apostleship has been set over you, with all patience, with signs and wonders and miracles
    13: For what is there that you have had which is less than the other churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this injury
    14: Behold, this is the third time I have prepared to come to you, and yet I will not be a burden to you. For I am seeking not the things that are yours, but you yourselves. And neither should the children store up for the parents, but the parents for the children
    15: And so, very willingly, I will spend and exhaust myself for the sake of your souls, loving you more, while being loved less
    16: And so be it. I have not burdened you, but instead, being astute, I obtained you by guile
    17: And yet, did I defraud you by means of any of those whom I sent to you
    18: I asked for Titus, and I sent a brother with him. Did Titus defraud you? Did we not walk with the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps
    19: Have you ever thought that we should explain ourselves to you? We speak in the sight of God, in Christ. But all things, most beloved, are for your edification
    20: Yet I fear, lest perhaps, when I have arrived, I might not find you such as I would want, and I might be found by you, such as you would not want. For perhaps there may be among you: contention, envy, animosity, dissension, detraction, whispering, self-exaltation, and rebellion
    21: If so, then, when I have arrived, God may again humble me among you. And so, I mourn for the many who sinned beforehand, and did not repent, over the lust and fornication and homosexuality, which they have committed

End of day 324.