Day 355:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And in the right hand of the One sitting upon the throne, I saw a book, written inside and out, sealed with seven seals
    2: And I saw a strong Angel, proclaiming with a great voice, “Who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals?
    3: And no one was able, neither in heaven, nor on earth, nor under the earth, to open the book, nor to gaze upon it
    4: And I wept greatly because no one was found worthy to open the book, nor to see it
    5: And one of the elders said to me: “Weep not. Behold, the lion from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the book and to break its seven seals.
    6: And I saw, and behold, in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb was standing, as if it were slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth to all the earth
    7: And he approached and received the book from the right hand of the One sitting upon the throne
    8: And when he had opened the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having stringed instruments, as well as golden bowls full of fragrances, which are the prayers of the saints
    9: And they were singing a new canticle, saying: “O Lord, you are worthy to receive the book and to open its seals, because you were slain and have redeemed us for God, by your blood, from every tribe and language and people and nation
    10: And you have made us into a kingdom and into priests for our God, and we shall reign over the earth.
    11: And I saw, and I heard the voice of many Angels surrounding the throne and the living creatures and the elders, (and their number was thousands of thousands
    12: saying with a great voice: “The Lamb who was slain is worthy to receive power, and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing.
    13: And every creature that is in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth, and all that is within the sea: I heard them all saying: “To the One sitting upon the throne and to the Lamb be blessing, and honor, and glory, and authority, forever and ever.
    14: And the four living creatures were saying, “Amen.” And the twenty-four elders fell down on their faces, and they adored the One who lives forever and ever

  Chapter 6.

    1: And I saw that the Lamb had opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures saying, in a voice like thunder: “Draw near and see.
    2: And I saw, and behold, a white horse. And he who was sitting upon it was holding a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering, so that he might prevail
    3: And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying: “Draw near and see.
    4: And another horse went forth, which was red. And it was granted to him who was sitting upon it that he would take peace from the earth, and that they would kill one another. And a great sword was given to him
    5: And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying: “Draw near and see.” And behold, a black horse. And he who was sitting upon it was holding a balance in his hand
    6: And I heard something like a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, “A double measure of wheat for a denarius, and three double measures of barley for a denarius, but do no harm to wine and oil.
    7: And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying: “Draw near and see.
    8: And behold, a pale horse. And he who was sitting upon it, his name was Death, and Hell was following him. And authority was given to him over the four parts of the earth, to destroy by the sword, by famine, and by death, and by the creatures of the earth
    9: And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw, under the altar, the souls of those who had been slain because of the Word of God and because of the testimony that they held
    10: And they were crying out with a loud voice, saying: “How long, O Holy and True Lord, will you not judge and not vindicate our blood against those who dwell upon the earth?
    11: And white robes were given to each of them. And they were told that they should rest for a brief time, until their fellow servants and their brothers, who were to be slain even as they were slain, would be completed
    12: And when he had opened the sixth seal, I saw, and behold, a great earthquake occurred. And the sun became black, like a haircloth sack, and the entire moon became like blood
    13: And the stars from heaven fell upon the earth, just as when a fig tree, shaken by a great wind, drops its immature figs
    14: And heaven receded, like a scroll being rolled up. And every mountain, and the islands, were moved from their places
    15: And the kings of the earth, and the rulers, and the military leaders, and the wealthy, and the strong, and everyone, servant and free, hid themselves in caves and among the rocks of the mountains
    16: And they said to the mountains and the rocks: “Fall over us and hide us from the face of the One sitting upon the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb
    17: For the great day of their wrath has arrived. And who will be able to stand?

  Chapter 7.

    1: After these things, I saw four Angels standing above the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that they would not blow upon the earth, nor upon the sea, nor upon any tree
    2: And I saw another Angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the Seal of the living God. And he cried out, in a great voice, to the four Angels to whom it was given to harm the earth and the sea
    3: saying: “Do no harm to the earth, nor to the sea, nor to the trees, until we seal the servants of our God on their foreheads.
    4: And I heard the number of those who were sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed, out of every tribe of the sons of Israel
    5: From the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Ruben, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand were sealed
    6: From the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand were sealed
    7: From the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand were sealed
    8: From the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand were sealed
    9: After these things, I saw a great crowd, which no one could number, from all the nations and tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and in sight of the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands
    10: And they cried out, with a great voice, saying: “Salvation is from our God, who sits upon the throne, and from the Lamb.
    11: And all the Angels were standing around the throne, with the elders and the four living creatures. And they fell upon their faces in view of the throne, and they worshipped God
    12: saying: “Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving, honor and power and strength to our God, forever and ever. Amen.
    13: And one of the elders responded and said to me: “These ones who are clothed in white robes, who are they? And where did they come from?
    14: And I said to him, “My lord, you know.” And he said to me: “These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and have made them white by the blood of the Lamb
    15: Therefore, they are before the throne of God, and they serve him, day and night, in his temple. And the One who sits upon the throne shall dwell over them
    16: They shall not hunger, nor shall they thirst, anymore. Neither shall the sun beat down upon them, nor any heat
    17: For the Lamb, who is in the midst of the throne, will rule over them, and he will lead them to the fountains of the waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour
    2: And I saw seven Angels standing in the sight of God. And seven trumpets were given to them
    3: And another Angel approached, and he stood before the altar, holding a golden censer. And much incense was given to him, so that he might offer upon the golden altar, which is before the throne of God, the prayers of all the saints
    4: And the smoke of the incense of the prayers of the saints ascended, in the presence of God, from the hand of the Angel
    5: And the Angel received the golden censer, and he filled it from the fire of the altar, and he cast it down upon the earth, and there were thunders and voices and lightnings and a great earthquake
    6: And the seven Angels who hold the seven trumpets prepared themselves, in order to sound the trumpet
    7: And the first Angel sounded the trumpet. And there came hail and fire, mixed with blood; and it was cast down upon the earth. And a third part of the earth was burned, and a third part of the trees was entirely burned up, and all the green plants were burned
    8: And the second Angel sounded the trumpet. And something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was cast down into the sea. And a third part of the sea became like blood
    9: And a third part of the creatures that were living in the sea died. And a third part of the ships were destroyed
    10: And the third Angel sounded the trumpet. And a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch. And it fell upon a third part of the rivers and upon the sources of water
    11: And the name of the star is called Wormwood. And a third part of the waters were turned into wormwood. And many men died from the waters, because they were made bitter
    12: And the fourth Angel sounded the trumpet. And a third part of the sun, and a third part of the moon, and a third part of the stars were struck, in such a way that a third part of them was obscured. And a third part of the day did not shine, and similarly the night
    13: And I saw, and I heard the voice of a lone eagle flying through the midst of heaven, calling with a great voice: “Woe, Woe, Woe, to the inhabitants of the earth, from the remaining voices of the three Angels, who will soon sound the trumpet!

End of day 355.