Day 70:

Reading 2-Samuel, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Now it happened that, after Saul died, David returned from the slaughter of Amalek, and he remained for two days at Ziklag
    2: Then, on the third day, a man appeared, arriving from the camp of Saul, with his garments torn and dust sprinkled on his head. And when he came to David, he fell on his face, and he reverenced
    3: And David said to him, “Where have you come from?” And he said to him, “I have fled from the camp of Israel.
    4: And David said to him: “What is the word that has happened? Reveal it to me.” And he said: “The people have fled from the battle, and many of the people have fallen and died. Moreover, Saul and his son Jonathan have passed away.
    5: And David said to the youth who was reporting to him, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan have died?
    6: And the youth, who was reporting it to him, said: “I arrived by chance on mount Gilboa. And Saul was lying upon his spear. Then the chariots and horsemen drew near to him
    7: And turning behind his back and seeing me, he called to me. And when I had responded, “I am here,
    8: he said to me, “Who are you?” And I said to him, “I am an Amalekite.
    9: And he said to me: “Stand over me, and kill me. For anguish has taken hold of me, and still my whole life is in me.
    10: And standing over him, I killed him. For I knew that he was not able to live after the fall. And I took the diadem that was on his head, and the bracelet from his arm, and I have brought them here to you, my lord.
    11: Then David, taking hold of his garments, tore them, with all the men who were with him
    12: And they mourned, and wept, and fasted until evening, over Saul and over his son Jonathan, and over the people of the Lord and over the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword
    13: And David said to the youth who had reported it to him, “Where are you from?” And he responded, “I am the son of a man who is a new arrival from the Amalekites.
    14: And David said to him, “Why were you not afraid to put forth your hand, so that you would kill the Christ of the Lord?
    15: And calling one of his servants, David said, “Draw near and rush against him” And he struck him, and he died
    16: And David said to him: “Your blood is upon your own head. For your own mouth has spoken against you, saying: ‘I have killed the Christ of the Lord.’ 
    17: Then David mourned a lamentation over Saul and over his son Jonathan, in this way
    18: (And he instructed that they should teach the sons of Judah the bow, just as it is written in the Book of the Just.) And he said: “Consider, O Israel, on behalf of those who are dead, wounded upon your heights
    19: The illustrious of Israel have been killed upon your mountains. How could the valiant have fallen
    20: Do not choose to announce it in Gath, and do not announce it in the crossroads of Ashkelon. Otherwise, the daughters of the Philistines may rejoice; otherwise, the daughters of the uncircumcised may exult
    21: O mountains of Gilboa, let neither dew, nor rain fall over you, and may these not be the fields of the first-fruits. For in that place, the shield of the valiant was cast away, the shield of Saul, as if he had not been anointed with oil
    22: From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the strong, the arrow of Jonathan never turned back, and the sword of Saul did not return empty
    23: Saul and Jonathan, worthy to be loved, and stately in their life: even in death they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles, stronger than lions
    24: O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you with scarlet finery, who offered ornaments of gold for your adornment
    25: How could the valiant have fallen in battle? How could Jonathan have been slain on the heights
    26: I grieve over you, my brother Jonathan: exceedingly stately, and worthy to be loved above the love of women. As a mother loves her only son, so also did I love you
    27: How could the robust have fallen, and the weapons of war have perished?

  Chapter 2.

    1: And so, after these things, David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I ascend to one of the cities of Judah?” And the Lord said to him, “Ascend.” And David said, “To where shall I ascend?” And he responded to him, “To Hebron.
    2: Therefore, David ascended with his two wives, Ahinoam, the Jezreelite, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel
    3: And as for the men who were with him, David led forth each man with his household. And they stayed in the towns of Hebron
    4: And the men of Judah went and anointed David there, so that he would reign over the house of Judah. And it was reported to David that the men of Jabesh Gilead had buried Saul
    5: Therefore, David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead, and he said to them: “Blessed are you to the Lord, who has accomplished this mercy with your lord Saul, so that you would bury him
    6: And now, certainly, the Lord will repay to you mercy and truth. But I also will act with favor, because you have accomplished this word
    7: Let your hands be strengthened, and be sons of fortitude. For even though your lord Saul has died, still the house of Judah has anointed me as king over them.
    8: Then Abner, the son of Ner, the leader of the army of Saul, took Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, and he led him around, throughout the camp
    9: And he appointed him as king over Gilead, and over Geshuri, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all of Israel
    10: Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, was forty years old when he had begun to rule over Israel. And he reigned for two years. For only the house of Judah followed David
    11: And the number of the days, during which David was staying and ruling in Hebron over the house of Judah, was seven years and six months
    12: And Abner, the son of Ner, and the youths of Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, went out from the camp to Gibeon
    13: Therefore, Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and the youths of David, went out and met them beside the pool of Gibeon. And when they had convened together, they sat down opposite one another: these on one side of the pool, and those on the other side
    14: And Abner said to Joab, “Let the youths rise up and play before us.” And Joab answered, “Let them rise up.
    15: Therefore, they rose up and crossed over, twelve in number of Benjamin, from the side of Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, and twelve of the youths of David
    16: And each one, taking hold of his peer by the head, fixed a sword into the side of his adversary, and they fell down together. And the name of that place was called: The Field of the Valiant in Gibeon
    17: And a very harsh war rose up on that day. And Abner, with the men of Israel, was put to flight by the youths of David
    18: Now the three sons of Zeruiah were in that place: Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel was a very swift runner, like one of the deer that lives in the forest
    19: And Asahel pursued Abner, and he did not turn aside to the right, nor to the left, to cease in the pursuit of Abner
    20: And so, Abner looked behind his back, and he said, “Are you not Asahel?” And he responded, “I am.
    21: And Abner said to him, “Go to the right, or to the left, and apprehend one of the youths, and take his spoils for yourself.” But Asahel was not willing to cease from pursuing him closely
    22: And again, Abner said to Asahel: “Withdraw, and do not choose to follow me. Otherwise, I will be compelled to stab you to the ground, and I will not be able to lift up my face before your brother, Joab.
    23: But he disdained to heed him, and he was not willing to turn aside. Therefore, turning, Abner struck him with his spear in the groin, and he pierced him through, and he died in the same place. And all those who would pass by the place, in which Asahel had fallen and died, would stand still
    24: Now while Joab and Abishai were pursuing Abner as he fled, the sun set. And they went as far as the Hill of the Aqueduct, which is opposite the valley on the way of the desert in Gibeon
    25: And the sons of Benjamin gathered themselves to Abner. And being joined in one battle line, they stood at the summit of a hill
    26: And Abner cried out to Joab, and he said: “Will your sword rage unto utter destruction? Are you ignorant that it is perilous to act in desperation? How long will you not tell the people to cease from the pursuit of their brothers?
    27: And Joab said: “As the Lord lives, if you had spoken in the morning, the people would have withdrawn from pursuing their brothers.
    28: Therefore, Joab sounded the trumpet, and the entire army stood still, and they did not pursue after Israel any more, and they did not engage in conflict
    29: Then Abner and his men went away, all that night, through the plains. And they crossed the Jordan, and having roamed throughout all of Beth-horon, they arrived in the camp
    30: But Joab, returning after he had released Abner, gathered together all the people. And of David’s youths, they were missing nineteen men, aside from Asahel
    31: But of Benjamin and of the men who were with Abner, the servants of David had struck three hundred and sixty, who also died
    32: And they took Asahel, and they buried him in the sepulcher of his father at Bethlehem. And Joab, and the men who were with him, walked throughout the night, and they arrived in Hebron at the very break of day

  Chapter 3.

    1: Then a long struggle occurred between the house of Saul and the house of David, with David prospering and growing ever stronger, but the house of Saul decreasing daily
    2: And sons were born to David in Hebron. And his firstborn son was Amnon, from Ahinoam the Jezreelite
    3: And after him, there was Chileab, from Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel. Then the third was Absalom, the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, the king of Geshur
    4: Then the fourth was Adonijah, the son of Haggith. And the fifth was Shephatiah, the son of Abital
    5: Also, the sixth was Ithream, from Eglah, the wife of David. These were born to David at Hebron
    6: Then, while there was a battle between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner, the son of Ner, was reigning over the house of Saul
    7: Now Saul had a concubine named Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. And Ishbosheth said to Abner
    8: “Why did you enter to the concubine of my father?” But he, being exceedingly angry at the words of Ishbosheth, said: “Am I the head of a dog against Judah this day? I have shown mercy to the house of Saul, your father, and to his brothers and friends. And I have not delivered you into the hands of David. And yet today you have sought me, so that you might rebuke me over a woman
    9: May God do these things to Abner, and may he add these other things, if, in the same way that the Lord swore to David, I do not do so with him
    10: that the kingdom be transferred from the house of Saul, and that the throne of David be elevated over Israel and over Judah, from Dan to Beersheba.
    11: And he was not able to respond anything to him, because he was in fear of him
    12: Therefore, Abner sent messengers to David for himself, saying, “Whose is the land?” and so that they would say, “Make a friendship with me, and my hand will be with you, and I will lead back all of Israel to you.
    13: And he said: “It is best. I will make a friendship with you. But one thing I ask of you, saying: You shall not see my face before you bring Michal, the daughter of Saul. And in this way, you shall come, and see me.
    14: Then David sent messengers to Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, saying, “Restore my wife Michal, whom I espoused to myself for one hundred foreskins of the Philistines.
    15: Therefore, Ishbosheth sent and took her from her husband Paltiel, the son of Laish
    16: And her husband was following her, weeping, as far as Bahurim. And Abner said to him, “Go and return.” And he returned
    17: Likewise, Abner sent word to the elders of Israel, saying: “As much yesterday as the day before, you were seeking David, so that he might reign over you
    18: Therefore, accomplish it now. For the Lord has spoken to David, saying: ‘By the hand of my servant David, I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and of all their enemies.’ 
    19: Then Abner also spoke to Benjamin. And he went away, so that he might speak to David in Hebron all that would be pleasing to Israel and to all of Benjamin
    20: And he went to David in Hebron with twenty men. And David made a feast for Abner, and for his men who had arrived with him
    21: And Abner said to David, “I will rise up, so that I may gather all of Israel to you, my lord the king, and so that I may enter into a pact with you, and so that you may reign over all, just as your soul desires.” Then, when David had led Abner away, and he had departed in peace
    22: immediately the servants of David and of Joab arrived, after having slain robbers, with exceedingly great spoils. But Abner was not with David in Hebron. For by then he had sent him away, and he had set out in peace
    23: And Joab, and the entire army that was with him, had arrived afterward. And so, it was reported to Joab, explaining that Abner, the son of Ner, went to the king, and he dismissed him, and he went away in peace
    24: And Joab entered to the king, and he said: “What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you. Why did you dismiss him, so that he has gone and departed
    25: Do you not know, about Abner, the son of Ner, that he came to you for this, so that he might deceive you, and might know of your departure and your return, and so that he might know all that you do?
    26: And so, Joab, going out from David, sent messengers after Abner, and he brought him back from the cistern of Sirah, without David knowing
    27: And when Abner had returned to Hebron, Joab took him alone to the middle of the gate, so that he might speak to him, but with deceit. And there, he stabbed him in the groin, and he died, in revenge for the blood of Asahel, his brother
    28: And when David had heard of it, now that the matter was done, he said: “I and my kingdom are clean before the Lord, even forever, of the blood of Abner, the son of Ner
    29: And may it fall upon the head of Joab, and upon the entire house of his father. And may there not fail to be, in the house of Joab, one who suffers from a flow of seed, or one who is leprous, or one who is effeminate, or one who falls by the sword, or one who is in need of bread.
    30: And so, Joab and his brother Abishai killed Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel at Gibeon, during the battle
    31: Then David said to Joab, and to all the people who were with him, “Tear your garments, and gird yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn before the funeral procession of Abner.” Moreover, king David himself was following the casket
    32: And when they had buried Abner in Hebron, king David lifted up his voice, and he wept over the burial mound of Abner. And all the people also wept
    33: And the king, mourning and lamenting Abner, said: “By no means has Abner died the way that cowards usually die
    34: Your hands are not bound, and your feet are not weighed down with fetters. But just as men often fall before the sons of iniquity, so you have fallen.” And while repeating this, all the people wept over him
    35: And when the entire multitude had arrived to take food with David, while it was still broad daylight, David swore, saying, “May God do these things to me, and may he add these other things, if I taste bread or anything else before the sun sets.
    36: And all the people heard it, and everything that the king did in the sight of the entire people was pleasing to them
    37: And every common person, and all of Israel, realized on that day that the killing of Abner, the son of Ner, had not been done by the king
    38: The king also said to his servants: “Could you be ignorant that a leader and a very great man has fallen today in Israel
    39: But I am still tender, and yet anointed king. And these men of the sons of Zeruiah are too harsh for me. May the Lord repay whoever does evil in accord with his malice.

  Chapter 4.

    1: Then Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, heard that Abner had fallen in Hebron. And his hands were weakened, and all of Israel was troubled
    2: Now the son of Saul had two men, leaders among robbers. The name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other was Rechab, sons of Rimmon, a Beerothite from the sons of Benjamin. For indeed, Beeroth, too, was reputed with Benjamin
    3: And the Beerothites had fled into Gittaim. And they were strangers there, until that time
    4: Now Jonathan, the son of Saul, had a son with disabled feet. For he was five years old when the report about Saul and Jonathan arrived from Jezreel. And so, his nurse, taking him up, fled. And while she was hurrying, so that she might flee, he fell and was made lame. And he was called Mephibosheth
    5: And so, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, arrived and entered the house of Ishbosheth, in the heat of the day. And he was sleeping on his bed at midday. And the doorkeeper of the house, who was cleaning the wheat, fell fast asleep
    6: Then they entered the house secretly, taking the ears of grain. And Rechab and his brother Baanah stabbed him in the groin, and they fled away
    7: For when they had entered the house, he was sleeping on his bed in a closed room. And striking him, they killed him. And taking his head, they departed by the way of the desert, walking throughout the night
    8: And they brought the head of Ishbosheth to David in Hebron. And they said to the king: “Behold, the head of Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, your enemy, who was seeking your life. And so, the Lord has avenged my lord the king, this day, from Saul and from his offspring.
    9: But David, responding to Rechab and his brother Baanah, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, said to them: “As the Lord lives who has rescued my soul from all distress
    10: the one who reported to me and said, ‘Saul is dead,’ who was thinking that he announced good news, I apprehended. And at Ziklag I killed him who ought to have been given a reward for the news
    11: How much more so now, when impious men have put to death an innocent man in his own house, upon his bed, shall I not require his blood from your hand, and take you away from the earth?
    12: And so, David commanded his servants, and they put them to death. And cutting off their hands and feet, they suspended them up over the pool in Hebron. But the head of Ishbosheth they took and buried in the sepulcher of Abner at Hebron

End of day 70.