Day 45:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: “When there will have been found in the land, which the Lord your God will give to you, the corpse of a man who has been killed, and it is not known who is guilty of the murder
    2: your judges and those greater by birth shall go out and measure, from the place of the corpse, the distance to each of the surrounding cities
    3: And in whichever one they perceive to be closer than the others, the elders shall take a calf from the herd, one which has not pulled with a yoke, nor tilled with a plow
    4: And they shall lead it into a rough and stony valley, one which has never been tilled or sown. And in that place, they shall cut the neck of the calf
    5: And the priests the sons of Levi shall approach, those whom the Lord your God has chosen to minister to him, and to bless in his name, and to decide every controversy by their word, and to judge which things are clean and which are unclean
    6: And those greater by birth of that city, nearest to the one who was slain, shall go and shall wash their hands over the calf that was killed in the valley
    7: And they shall say: ‘Our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see it
    8: Be merciful to your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, O Lord, and do not charge them with innocent blood in the midst of your people Israel.’ And so the guilt of the blood will be taken away from them
    9: Then you will be free from the blood that was shed against the innocent, when you will have done as the Lord has instructed you
    10: If you have gone out to fight against your enemies, and the Lord your God has delivered them into your hand, and if, as you are leading away the captives
    11: you see among the number of the captives a beautiful woman, and you love her, and you are willing to have her as a wife
    12: then you shall lead her into your house. And she shall shave off her hair, and cut her nails short
    13: and remove the garment in which she was captured. And she shall sit in your house and weep for her father and mother, for one month. And after that, you shall enter to her and sleep with her, and she shall be your wife
    14: But if afterwards she does not sit well in your mind, you shall set her free. You cannot sell her for money, nor can you oppress her by force. For you have humiliated her
    15: If a man has two wives, one beloved and the other hated, and they have produced children by him, and if the son of the hated wife is the firstborn
    16: and if he wishes to divide his substance among his sons: he cannot make the son of the beloved wife the firstborn, and so prefer him before the son of the hated wife
    17: Instead, he shall acknowledge the son of the hated wife as the firstborn, and he shall give to him a double portion of all that he has. For he is the first among his children, and the rights of the firstborn are owed to him
    18: If a man produces a disobedient and reckless son, who will not listen to the orders of his father or mother, and, having been corrected, shows contempt for obedience
    19: they shall take him and lead him to the elders of the city and to the gate of judgment
    20: And they shall say to them: ‘This our son is reckless and disobedient. He shows contempt when listening to our admonitions. He occupies himself with carousing, and self-indulgence, and feasting.
    21: Then the people of the city shall stone him to death. And he shall die, so that you may take away the evil from your midst. And so may all of Israel, upon hearing it, be very afraid
    22: When a man will have sinned in a matter which is punished by death, and, having been judged unto death, he has been hanged on a gallows
    23: his corpse shall not remain on the tree. Instead, he shall be buried on the same day. For he who hangs from a tree has been cursed by God, and you shall not defile your land, which the Lord your God will give to you as a possession.

  Chapter 22.

    1: “If you see your brother’s ox or sheep wander astray, you shall not pass by. Instead, you shall lead them back to your brother
    2: But if your brother is not near, or you do not know him, you shall lead them to your house, and they shall be with you until your brother seeks them and receives them
    3: You shall act in a similar manner with his donkey, and his clothing, and all the belongings of your brother that have been lost. If you find it, you shall not neglect it, as if it belonged to a stranger
    4: If you see that your brother’s donkey or ox has fallen along the way, you shall not disregard it. Instead, you shall lift it up with him
    5: A woman shall not be clothed with manly apparel, nor shall a man make use of feminine apparel. For whoever does these things is abominable with God
    6: If, as you are walking along the way, you find a bird’s nest, in a tree or on the ground, and the mother is nurturing the young or the eggs, you shall not take her with her young
    7: Instead, you shall permit her to go, retaining the young that you have caught, so that it may be well with you, and you may live for a long time
    8: When you build a new house, you shall make a wall around the roof. Otherwise, someone may slip and fall down violently, and so blood would be shed at your house, and you would be guilty
    9: You shall not sow your vineyard with another seed, lest both the seed that you have sown and what springs forth from the vineyard be sanctified together
    10: You shall not till with an ox and a donkey at the same time
    11: You shall not wear a vestment which has been woven from both wool and linen
    12: You shall make strings along the hem, at the four corners of your cloak, which covers you
    13: If a man takes a wife, and afterwards he has hatred for her
    14: and so he seeks opportunities to dismiss her, imputing a very wicked name to her by saying, ‘I received this woman as a wife, and upon entering to her, I found her not to be a virgin,
    15: then her father and mother shall take her, and they shall bring with them the signs of her virginity, to the elders of the city who are at the gate
    16: And the father shall say: ‘I gave my daughter to this man as a wife. And because he hates her
    17: he accuses her with a very wicked name, by saying: “I did not find your daughter to be a virgin.” But behold, these are the signs of my daughter’s virginity.’ And they shall spread the clothing before the elders of the city
    18: And the elders of that city shall apprehend that man and beat him
    19: Moreover, they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver, which he will give to the father of the girl, because he has committed slander, with a very wicked name, against a virgin of Israel. And he shall have her as a wife, and he cannot dismiss her throughout all the days of his life
    20: But if what he has claimed is true and virginity is not found in the girl
    21: then they shall throw her down, outside the doors of her father’s house, and the men of that city shall stone her to death, and she shall die. For she has acted wickedly in Israel, in that she fornicated in her father’s house. And so shall you take away the evil from your midst
    22: If a man sleeps with the wife of another, then they shall both die, that is, the adulterer and the adulteress. And so shall you take away the evil from Israel
    23: If a man has betrothed a girl who is a virgin, and if someone finds her in the city and he lies with her
    24: then you shall lead them both out to the gate of that city, and they shall be stoned to death: the girl, because she did not cry out though she was in the city; the man, because he has humiliated the wife of his neighbor. And so shall you take away the evil from your midst
    25: But if a man discovers, in the countryside, a girl who has been betrothed, and, apprehending her, he lies with her, then he alone shall die
    26: The girl shall suffer nothing, nor is she guilty unto death. For just as a robber rises up against his brother and slays his life, so also did the girl suffer greatly
    27: She was alone in the field. She cried out, and there was no one nearby, who might deliver her
    28: If a man find a girl who is a virgin, who does not have a betrothal, and, taking her, he lies with her, and the matter is brought to judgment
    29: then he who slept with her shall give to the father of the girl fifty shekels of silver, and he shall have her as a wife, because he has humiliated her. He cannot dismiss her, throughout all the days of his life
    30: No man shall take his father’s wife, nor remove her covering.

  Chapter 23.

    1: “A eunuch, one whose testicles have been debilitated or cut off, or whose penis has been cut off, shall not enter into the church of the Lord
    2: The offspring of a harlot, that is, one born of a prostitute, shall not enter into the church of the Lord, until the tenth generation
    3: The Ammonite and the Moabite, even after the tenth generation, shall not enter into the church of the Lord forever
    4: because they were not willing to meet you with bread and water along the way, when you had departed from Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Beor, from Mesopotamia in Syria, in order to curse you
    5: But the Lord your God was not willing to listen to Balaam, and he turned his cursing into your blessing, because he loves you
    6: You shall not make peace with them, nor shall you seek their prosperity, throughout all the days of your life forever
    7: You shall not abhor anyone from Idumea, for he is your brother, nor the Egyptian, for you were a new arrival in his land
    8: Those who have been born of them, in the third generation, shall enter into the church of the Lord
    9: When you have gone out to war against your enemies, you shall keep yourself from everything that is evil
    10: If there is a man among you who has been defiled by a dream in the night, he shall depart from the camp
    11: And he shall not return before the evening, after he has washed with water, and then, after the sun sets, he shall return to the camp
    12: You shall have a place beyond the camp to which you may go for the necessities of nature
    13: carrying a small shovel at your belt. And when you would sit down, you shall dig around, and then, with the soil that was dug up, you shall cove
    14: that from which you were relieved. For the Lord your God walks in the midst of your camp, in order to rescue you, and to deliver your enemies to you. And so, let your camp be holy, and let nothing filthy appear within it, lest he abandon you
    15: You shall not deliver a servant who has fled to you to his master
    16: He shall live with you in a place that pleases him, and he shall rest in one of your cities. You shall not grieve him
    17: There shall be no prostitutes among the daughters of Israel, nor anyone among the sons of Israel who visits a prostitute
    18: You shall not offer money from a prostitute, nor the price of a dog, in the house of the Lord your God, no matter what you may have vowed. For both of these are an abomination with the Lord your God
    19: You shall not lend money, or grain, or anything else at all, to your brother at interest,
    20: but only to a foreigner. For you shall lend to your brother whatever he needs without interest, so that the Lord your God may bless you in all your works in the land, which you shall enter so as to possess it
    21: When you have made a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not be late in paying it. For the Lord your God demands it. And if you delay, it shall be imputed to you as a sin
    22: If you are not willing to make a promise, then it shall be without sin
    23: But as soon as it has departed from your lips, you shall observe and do just as you have promised to the Lord your God and just as you have spoken by your own free will and with your own mouth
    24: Upon entering your neighbor’s vineyard, you may eat as many grapes as you please. But you may not carry any out with you
    25: If you enter into your friend’s grain field, you may break off the ears, and rub them in your hand, but you may not reap them with a sickle.

  Chapter 24.

    1: “If a man takes a wife, and he has her, and she does not find favor before his eyes because of some vileness, then he shall write a bill of divorce, and he shall give it to her hand, and he shall dismiss her from his house
    2: And when, having departed, she has married another
    3: and if he likewise hates her, and has given her a bill of divorce, and has dismissed her from his house, or if indeed he has died
    4: then the former husband cannot take her back as a wife. For she has been polluted and has become abominable in the sight of the Lord. Otherwise, you may cause your land, which the Lord your God will deliver to you as a possession, to sin
    5: When a man has recently taken a wife, he shall not go out to war, nor shall any public office be enjoined upon him. Instead, he shall be free at home without guilt, so that for one year he may rejoice with his wife
    6: You shall not accept an upper or lower millstone as collateral. For then he will have placed his life with you
    7: If a man has been caught soliciting his brother among the sons of Israel, and selling him in order to receive a price, then he shall be put to death. And so shall you take away the evil from your midst
    8: Observe diligently, lest you incur the wound of leprosy. But you shall do whatever the priests of the Levitical stock shall teach you to do, according to what I have instructed them. And you shall fulfill it carefully
    9: Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam, along the way, as you were departing from Egypt
    10: When you require from your neighbor anything that he owes to you, you shall not enter into his house in order to take away the collateral
    11: Instead, you shall stand outside, and he will carry out to you what he has
    12: But if he is poor, then the collateral shall not remain with you through the night
    13: Instead, you shall return it to him promptly, before the setting of the sun, so that, sleeping in his own garment, he may bless you, and you may have justice in the presence of the Lord your God
    14: You shall not refuse the pay of the indigent and the poor, whether he is your brother, or he is a new arrival who dwells with you in the land and is within your gates
    15: Instead, you shall pay him the price of his labor on the same day, before the setting of the sun. For he is poor, and with it he sustains his life. Otherwise, he may cry out against you to the Lord, and it would be charged to you as a sin
    16: The fathers shall not be put to death on behalf of the sons, nor the sons on behalf of the fathers, but each one shall die for his own sin
    17: You shall not pervert the judgment of the new arrival or the orphan, nor shall you take away the widow’s garment as collateral
    18: Remember that you served in Egypt, and that the Lord your God rescued you from there. Therefore, I am instructing you to act in this way
    19: When you have reaped the grain in your field, and, having forgotten, you leave behind a sheaf, you shall not return to take it away. Instead, you shall permit the new arrival, and the orphan, and the widow to take it away, so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the works of your hands
    20: If you have gathered the fruit of your olive trees, you shall not return in order to gather whatever may remain on the trees. Instead, you shall leave it behind for the new arrival, the orphan, and the widow
    21: If you harvest the vintage of your vineyard, you shall not gather the remaining clusters. Instead, they shall fall to the use of the stranger, the orphan, and the widow
    22: Remember that you also served in Egypt, and so, for this reason, I am instructing you to act in this way.

End of day 45.