Day 158:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['89', '90', '91', '92']:

  Chapter 89.

    1: A prayer of Moses, the man of God. O Lord, you have been our refuge from generation to generation
    2: Before the mountains became, or the land was formed along with the world: from ages past, even to all ages, you are God
    3: And, lest man be turned aside in humiliation, you have said: Be converted, O sons of men
    4: For a thousand years before your eyes are like the days of yesterday, which have passed by, and they are like a watch of the night
    5: which was held for nothing: so their years shall be
    6: In the morning, he may pass away like grass; in the morning, he may flower and pass away. In the evening, he will fall, and harden, and become dry
    7: For, at your wrath, we have withered away, and we have been disturbed by your fury
    8: You have placed our iniquities in your sight, our age in the illumination of your countenance
    9: For all our days have faded away, and at your wrath, we have fainted. Our years will be considered to be like a spider’s web
    10: The days of our years in them are seventy years. But in the powerful, they are eighty years, and more of these are with hardship and sorrow. For mildness has overwhelmed us, and we shall be corrected
    11: Who knows the power of your wrath? And, before fear, can your wrat
    12: be numbered? So make known your right hand, along with men learned in heart, in wisdom
    13: Return, O Lord, how long? And may you be persuaded on behalf of your servants
    14: We were filled in the morning with your mercy, and we exulted and delighted all our days
    15: We have been rejoicing, because of the days in which you humbled us, because of the years in which we saw evils
    16: Look down upon your servants and upon their works, and direct their sons
    17: And may the splendor of the Lord our God be upon us. And so, direct the works of our hands over us; direct even the work of our hands

  Chapter 90.

    1: The Praise of a Canticle, of David. Whoever dwells with the assistance of the Most High will abide in the protection of the God of heaven
    2: He will say to the Lord, “You are my supporter and my refuge.” My God, I will hope in him
    3: For he has freed me from the snare of those who go hunting, and from the harsh word
    4: He will overshadow you with his shoulders, and you will hope under his wings
    5: His truth will surround you with a shield. You will not be afraid: before the terror of the night
    6: before the arrow flying in the day, before the troubles that wander in the darkness, nor of invasion and the midday demon
    7: A thousand will fall before your side and ten thousand before your right hand. Yet it will not draw near you
    8: So then, truly, you will consider with your eyes, and you will see the retribution of sinners
    9: For you, O Lord, are my hope. You have set the Most High as your refuge
    10: Disaster will not draw near to you, and the scourge will not approach your tabernacle
    11: For he has given his Angels charge over you, so as to preserve you in all your ways
    12: With their hands, they will carry you, lest you hurt your foot against a stone
    13: You will walk over the asp and the king serpent, and you will trample the lion and the dragon
    14: Because he has hoped in me, I will free him. I will protect him because he has known my name
    15: He will cry out to me, and I will heed him. I am with him in tribulation. I will rescue him, and I will glorify him
    16: I will fill him with length of days. And I will reveal to him my salvation

  Chapter 91.

    1: A Canticle Psalm. On the day of the Sabbath
    2: It is good to confess to the Lord and to sing psalms to your name, O Most High
    3: to announce your mercy in the morning, and your truth throughout the night
    4: upon the ten strings, upon the psaltery, with a canticle, upon stringed instruments
    5: For you, O Lord, have delighted me with your doings, and I will exult in the works of your hands
    6: How great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts have been made exceedingly deep
    7: A foolish man will not know these things, and a senseless one will not understand
    8: when sinners will have risen up like grass, and when all those who work iniquity will have appeared, that they shall pass away, age after age
    9: But you, O Lord, are the Most High for all eternity
    10: For behold your enemies, O Lord, for behold your enemies will perish, and all those who work iniquity will be dispersed
    11: And my horn will be exalted like that of the single-horned beast, and my old age will be exalted in fruitful mercy
    12: And my eye has looked down upon my enemies, and my ear will hear of the malignant rising up against me
    13: The just one will flourish like the palm tree. He will be multiplied like the cedar of Lebanon
    14: Those planted in the house of the Lord will flourish in the courts of the house of our God
    15: They will still be multiplied in a fruitful old age, and they will endure well
    16: so that they may announce that the Lord our God is righteous and that there is no iniquity in him

  Chapter 92.

    1: The Praise of a Canticle, of David himself. In the time before the Sabbath, when the earth was founded
    2: The Lord has reigned. He has been clothed with beauty
    3: The Lord has been clothed with strength, and he has girded himself. Yet he has also confirmed the world, which will not be moved
    4: My throne is prepared from of old. You are from everlasting
    5: The floods have lifted up, O Lord, the floods have lifted up their voice. The floods have lifted up their waves
    6: before the noise of many waters. Wondrous are the surges of the sea; wondrous is the Lord on high
    7: Your testimonies have been made exceedingly trustworthy. Sanctity befits your house, O Lord, with length of days

End of day 158.