Day 7:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: In truth, Abraham took another wife, named Keturah
    2: And she bore to him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah
    3: Likewise, Jokshan conceived Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim
    4: And truly, from Midian was born Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah
    5: And Abraham gave everything that he possessed to Isaac
    6: But to the sons of the concubines he gave generous gifts, and he separated them from his son Isaac, while he still lived, toward the eastern region
    7: Now the days of Abraham’s life were one hundred and seventy-five years
    8: And declining, he died in a good old age, and at an advanced stage of life, and full of days. And he was gathered to his people
    9: And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the double cave, which was situated in the field of Ephron, of the son of Zohar the Hittite, across from the region of Mamre
    10: which he had bought from the sons of Heth. There he was buried, with his wife Sarah
    11: And after his passing, God blessed his son Isaac, who lived near the well named ‘of the One who lives and who sees.
    12: These are the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s servant, bore to him
    13: And these are the names of his sons according to their language and generations. The firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam
    14: likewise Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa
    15: Hadad, and Tema, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah
    16: These are the sons of Ishmael. And these are their names throughout their fortresses and towns: the twelve princes of their tribes
    17: And the years of the life of Ishmael that passed were one hundred and thirty-seven. And declining, he died and was placed with his people
    18: Now he had lived from Havilah as far as Shur, which overlooks Egypt as it approaches the Assyrians. He passed away in the sight of all his brothers
    19: Likewise, these are the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham. Abraham conceived Isaac
    20: who, when he was forty years old, took Rebekah, the sister of Laban, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian from Mesopotamia, as a wife
    21: And Isaac beseeched the Lord on behalf of his wife, because she was barren. And he heard him, and he gave conception to Rebekah
    22: But the little ones struggled in her womb. So she said, “If it was to be so with me, what need was there to conceive?” And she went to consult the Lord
    23: And responding, he said, “Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will be divided out of your womb, and one people will overcome the other people, and the elder will serve the younger.
    24: Now the time had arrived to give birth, and behold, twins were discovered in her womb
    25: He who departed first was red, and entirely hairy like a pelt; and his name was called Esau. At once the other departed and he held his brother’s foot in his hand; and because of this he was called Jacob
    26: Isaac was sixty years old when the little ones were born to him
    27: And as adults, Esau became a knowledgeable hunter and a man of agriculture, but Jacob, a simple man, dwelt in tents
    28: Isaac was fond of Esau, because he was fed from his hunting; and Rebekah loved Jacob
    29: Then Jacob boiled a small meal. Esau, when he had arrived weary from the field
    30: said to him, “Give me this red stew, for I am very tired.” For this reason, his name was called Edom
    31: Jacob said to him, “Sell me your right of the firstborn.
    32: He answered, “Lo, I am dying, what will the right of the firstborn provide for me?
    33: Jacob said, “So then, swear to me.” Esau swore to him, and he sold his right of the firstborn
    34: And so, taking bread and the food of lentils, he ate, and he drank, and he went away, giving little weight to having sold the right of the firstborn

  Chapter 26.

    1: Then, when a famine arose over the land, after that barrenness which had happened in the days of Abraham, Isaac went to Abimelech, king of the Palestinians, in Gerar
    2: And the Lord appeared to him, and he said: “Do not descend into Egypt, but rest in the land that I will tell you
    3: and sojourn in it, and I will be with you, and I will bless you. For to you and to your offspring I will give all these regions, completing the oath that I promised to Abraham your father
    4: And I will multiply your offspring like the stars of heaven. And I will give to your posterity all these regions. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth will be blessed
    5: because Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my precepts and commandments, and observed the ceremonies and the laws.
    6: And so Isaac remained in Gerar
    7: And when he was questioned by the men of that place about his wife, he answered, “She is my sister.” For he was afraid to confess her to be his mate, thinking that perhaps they would put him to death because of her beauty
    8: And when very many days had passed, and he had remained in the same place, Abimelech, king of the Palestinians, gazing through a window, saw him being playful with Rebekah, his wife
    9: And summoning him, he said: “It is clear that she is your wife. Why did you falsely claim her to be your sister?” He answered, “I was afraid, lest I might die because of her.
    10: And Abimelech said: “Why have you burdened us? Someone from the people could have lain with your wife, and you would have brought a great sin upon us.” And he instructed all the people, saying
    11: “Whoever will touch the wife of this man will die a death.
    12: Then Isaac sowed in that land, and he found, in that same year, one hundredfold. And the Lord blessed him
    13: And the man was enriched, and he continued prospering as well as increasing, until he became very great
    14: Likewise, he had possessions of sheep and of herds, and a very large family. Because of this, the Palestinians envied him
    15: so, at that time, they obstructed all the wells that the servants of his father Abraham had dug, filling them with soil
    16: It reached a point where Abimelech himself said to Isaac, “Move away from us, for you have become very much more powerful than we.
    17: And departing, he then went toward the torrent of Gerar, and he dwelt there
    18: Again, he dug up other wells, which the servants of his father Abraham had dug, and which, after his death, the Philistines had formerly obstructed. And he called them by the same names that his father had called them before
    19: And they dug in the torrent, and they found living water
    20: But in that place also the shepherds of Gerar argued against the shepherds of Isaac, by saying, “It is our water.” For this reason, he called the name of the well, because of what had happened, ‘Calumny.
    21: Then they dug up yet another one. And over that one also they fought, and he called it, ‘Enmity.
    22: Advancing from there, he dug another well, over which they did not contend. And so he called its name, ‘Latitude,’ saying, “Now the Lord has expanded us and caused us to increase across the land.
    23: Then he ascended from that place into Beersheba
    24: where the Lord appeared to him on the same night, saying: “I am the God of Abraham your father. Do not be afraid, for I am with you. I will bless you, and I will multiply your offspring because of my servant Abraham.
    25: And so he built an altar there. And he invoked the name of the Lord, and he stretched out his tent. And he instructed his servants to dig a well
    26: When Abimelech, and Ahuzzath, his friend, and Phicol, the leader of the military, had arrived from Gerar to that place
    27: Isaac said to them, “Why have you come to me, a man whom you hate, and whom you have expelled from among you?
    28: And they responded: “We saw that the Lord is with you, and therefore we said: Let there be an oath between us, and let us initiate a pact
    29: so that you may not do us any kind of harm, just as we have touched nothing of yours, and have not caused any injury to you, but with peace we released you, augmented by the blessing of the Lord.
    30: Therefore, he made them a feast, and after the food and drink
    31: arising in the morning, they swore to one another. And Isaac sent them away peacefully to their own place
    32: Then, behold, on the same day the servants of Isaac came, reporting to him about a well which they had dug, and saying: “We have found water.
    33: Therefore, he called it, ‘Abundance.’ And the name of the city was established as ‘Beersheba,’ even to the present day
    34: In truth, at forty years of age, Esau took wives: Judith, the daughter of Beeri, the Hittite, and Basemath, the daughter of Elon, of the same place
    35: And they both offended the mind of Isaac and Rebekah

  Chapter 27.

    1: Now Isaac was old, and his eyes were cloudy, and so he was not able to see. And he called his elder son Esau, and he said to him, “My son?” And he responded, “Here I am.
    2: His father said to him: “You see that I am old, and I do not know the day of my death
    3: Take your weapons, the quiver and the bow, and go out. And when you have taken something by hunting
    4: make from it a small meal for me, just as you know I like, and bring it, so that I may eat and my soul may bless you before I die.
    5: And when Rebekah had heard this, and he had gone out into the field to fulfill his father’s order
    6: she said to her son Jacob: “I heard your father speaking with your brother Esau, and saying to him
    7: ‘Bring to me from your hunting, and make me foods, so that I may eat and bless you in the sight of the Lord before I die.
    8: Therefore, now my son, agree to my counsel
    9: and go straight to the flock, and bring me two of the best young goats, so that from them I may make meat for your father, such as he willingly eats
    10: Then, when you have brought these in and he has eaten, he may bless you before he dies.
    11: He answered her: “You know that my brother Esau is a hairy man, and I am smooth
    12: If my father should lay hands on me and perceive it, I am afraid lest he think me willing to mock him, and I will bring a curse upon myself, instead of a blessing.
    13: And his mother said to him: “Let this curse be upon me, my son. Yet listen to my voice, and go directly to bring what I said.
    14: He went out, and he brought, and he gave to his mother. She prepared the meats, just as she knew his father liked
    15: And she clothed him with the very fine garments of Esau, which she had at home with her
    16: And she encircled his hands with little pelts from the young goats, and she covered his bare neck
    17: And she gave him the small meal, and she handed him the bread that she had baked
    18: When he had carried these in, he said, “My father?” And he answered, “I’m listening. Who are you, my son?
    19: And Jacob said: “I am Esau, your firstborn. I have done as you instructed me. Arise; sit and eat from my hunting, so that your soul may bless me.
    20: And again Isaac said to his son, “How were you able to find it so quickly, my son?” He answered, “It was the will of God, so that what I sought met with me quickly.
    21: And Isaac said, “Come here, so that I may touch you, my son, and may prove whether you are my son Esau, or not.
    22: He approached his father, and when he had felt him, Isaac said: “The voice indeed is the voice of Jacob. But the hands are the hands of Esau.
    23: And he did not recognize him, because his hairy hands made him seem similar to the elder one. Therefore, blessing him
    24: he said, “Are you my son Esau?” He answered, “I am.
    25: Then he said, “Bring me the foods from your hunting, my son, so that my soul may bless you.” And when he had eaten what was offered, he also brought forth wine for him. And after he finished it
    26: he said to him, “Come to me and give me a kiss, my son.
    27: He approached and kissed him. And immediately he perceived the fragrance of his garments. And so, blessing him, he said: “Behold, the smell of my son is like the smell of a plentiful field, which the Lord has blessed
    28: May God give to you, from the dew of heaven and from the fatness of the earth, an abundance of grain and wine
    29: And may the peoples serve you, and may the tribes reverence you. May you be the lord of your brothers, and may your mother’s sons bow down before you. Whoever curses you, may he be cursed, and whoever blesses you, may he be filled with blessings.
    30: Scarcely had Isaac completed his words, and Jacob departed, when Esau arrived
    31: And he brought his father foods cooked from his hunting, saying, “Arise, my father, and eat from your son’s hunting, so that your soul may bless me.
    32: And Isaac said to him, “But who are you?” And he answered, “I am your firstborn son, Esau.
    33: Isaac became frightened and very astonished. And wondering beyond what can be believed, he said: “Then who is he that a while ago brought me the prey from his hunting, from which I ate, before you arrived? And I blessed him, and he will be blessed.
    34: Esau, having heard his father’s words, roared out with a great outcry. And, being confounded, he said, “But bless me also, my father.
    35: And he said, “Your twin came deceitfully, and he received your blessing.
    36: But he responded: “Justly is his name called Jacob. For he has supplanted me yet another time. My birthright he took away before, and now, this second time, he has stolen my blessing.” And again, he said to his father, “Have you not reserved a blessing for me also?
    37: Isaac answered: “I have appointed him as your lord, and I have subjugated all his brothers as his servants. I have reinforced him with grain and wine, and after this, my son, what more shall I do for you?
    38: And Esau said to him: “Have you only one blessing, father? I beg you, bless me also.” And when he wept with a loud wail
    39: Isaac was moved, and he said to him: “In the fatness of the earth, and in the dew of heaven from above
    40: will your blessing be. You will live by the sword, and you will serve your brother. But the time will arrive when you will shake off and release his yoke from your neck.
    41: Therefore, Esau always hated Jacob, for the blessing with which his father had blessed him. And he said in his heart, “The days will arrive for the mourning of my father, and I will kill my brother Jacob.
    42: These things were reported to Rebekah. And sending and calling for her son Jacob, she said to him, “Behold, your brother Esau is threatening to kill you
    43: Therefore, now my son, listen to my voice. Rise up and flee to my brother Laban, in Haran
    44: And you will dwell with him for a few days, until the fury of your brother subsides
    45: and his indignation ceases, and he forgets the things that you have done to him. After this, I will send for you and bring you from there to here. Why should I be bereaved of both my sons in one day?
    46: And Rebekah said to Isaac, “I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob accepts a wife from the stock of this land, I would not be willing to live.

  Chapter 28.

    1: And so Isaac called for Jacob, and he blessed him, and he instructed him, saying: “Do not be willing to accept a mate from the family of Canaan
    2: But go, and journey to Mesopotamia of Syria, to the house of Bethuel, your mother’s father, and there accept for yourself a wife from the daughters of Laban, your maternal uncle
    3: And may God almighty bless you, and may he cause you to increase and also to multiply, so that you may be influential among the people
    4: And may he give the blessings of Abraham to you, and to your offspring after you, so that you may possess the land of your sojourning, which he promised to your grandfather.
    5: And when Isaac had dismissed him, setting out, he went to Mesopotamia of Syria, to Laban, the son of Bethuel, the Syrian, the brother to Rebekah, his mother
    6: But Esau, seeing that his father had blessed Jacob and had sent him into Mesopotamia of Syria, to take a wife from there, and that, after the blessing, he had instructed him, saying: ‘You shall not accept a wife from the daughters of Canaan,
    7: and that Jacob, obeying his parents, had gone into Syria
    8: having evidence also that his father did not look with favor upon the daughters of Canaan
    9: he went to Ishmael, and he took as a wife, beside those he had before, Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, the sister of Nebaioth
    10: Meanwhile Jacob, having departed from Beersheba, continued on to Haran
    11: And when he had arrived at a certain place, where he would rest after the setting of the sun, he took some of the stones that lay there, and placing them under his head, he slept in the same place
    12: And he saw in his sleep: a ladder standing upon the earth, with its top touching heaven, also, the Angels of God ascending and descending by it
    13: and the Lord, leaning upon the ladder, saying to him: “I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. The land, in which you sleep, I will give to you and to your offspring
    14: And your offspring will be like the dust of the earth. You will spread abroad to the West, and to the East, and to the North, and to the Meridian. And in you and in your offspring, all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed
    15: And I will be your guardian wherever you will journey, and I will bring you back into this land. Neither will I dismiss you, until I have accomplished all that I have said.
    16: And when Jacob had awakened from sleep, he said, “Truly, the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it.
    17: And being terrified, he said: “How terrible this place is! This is nothing other than the house of God and the gateway of heaven.
    18: Therefore, Jacob, arising in the morning, took the stone which he had placed under his head, and he set it up as monument, pouring oil over it
    19: And he called the name of the city, ‘Bethel,’ which before was called Luz
    20: And then he made a vow, saying: “If God will be with me, and will guard me along the way by which I walk, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear
    21: and if I will return prosperously to my father’s house, then the Lord will be my God
    22: and this stone, which I have set up as a monument, will be called ‘the House of God.’ And from all the things that you will give to me, I will offer tithes to you.

End of day 7.