Day 150:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['57', '58', '59', '60']:

  Chapter 57.

    1: Unto the end. May you not destroy. Of David, with the inscription of a title
    2: If, truly and certainly, you speak justice, then judge what is right, you sons of men
    3: For, even in your heart, you work iniquity. Your hands construct injustice on the earth
    4: Sinners have become foreigners from the womb; they have gone astray from conception. They have been speaking falsehoods
    5: Their fury is similar to that of a serpent; it is like a deaf asp, who even blocks her ears
    6: who will not listen to the voice of charmers, nor even to the enchanter who chants wisely
    7: God will crush their teeth within their own mouth. The Lord will break the molars of the lions
    8: They will come to nothing, like water flowing away. He has aimed his bow, while they are being weakened
    9: Like wax that flows, they will be carried away. Fire has fallen upon them, and they will not see the sun
    10: Before your thorns could know the brier, he consumes them alive, as if in rage
    11: The just one will rejoice when he sees vindication. He will wash his hands in the blood of the sinner
    12: And man will say, “If the just one is fruitful, then, truly, there is a God judging them on earth.

  Chapter 58.

    1: Unto the end. May you not destroy. Of David, with the inscription of a title, when Saul sent and watched his house, in order to execute him
    2: Rescue me from my enemies, my God, and free me from those who rise up against me
    3: Rescue me from those who work iniquity, and save me from men of blood
    4: For behold, they have seized my soul. The strong have rushed upon me
    5: And it is neither my iniquity, nor my sin, O Lord. I have run and gone directly, without iniquity
    6: Rise up to meet me, and see: even you, O Lord, the God of hosts, the God of Israel. Reach out to visit all nations. Do not take pity on all those who work iniquity
    7: They will return toward evening, and they will suffer hunger like dogs, and they will wander around the city
    8: Behold, they will speak with their mouth, and a sword is in their lips: “For who has heard us?
    9: And you, O Lord, will laugh at them. You will lead all the Gentiles to nothing
    10: I will guard my strength toward you, for you are God, my supporter
    11: My God, his mercy will precede me
    12: God will oversee my enemies for me. Do not slay them, lest at times my people may forget them. Scatter them by your virtue. And depose them, O Lord, my protector
    13: by the offense of their mouth and by the speech of their lips. And may they be caught in their arrogance. And, for their cursing and lying, they will be made know
    14: at the consummation, in the fury of the consummation, and so they will be no more. And they will know that God will rule over Jacob, even to the ends of the earth
    15: They will return toward evening, and they will suffer hunger like dogs, and they will wander around the city
    16: They will be dispersed in order to gnaw, and truly, when they will not have been satisfied, they will murmur
    17: But I will sing your strength, and I will extol your mercy, in the morning. For you have been my supporter and my refuge in the day of my tribulation
    18: To you, my helper, I will sing psalms. For you are God, my supporter. My God is my mercy

  Chapter 59.

    1: Unto the end. For those who will be changed, with the inscription of a title, of David himself, for instruction
    2: when he set fire to Mesopotamia of Syria and Sobal, and Joab turned back and struck Idumea, in the valley of the salt pits, twelve thousand men
    3: O God, you have rejected us, and you have ruined us. You became angry, and yet you have been merciful to us
    4: You have moved the earth, and you have disturbed it. Heal its breaches, for it has been moved
    5: You have revealed to your people difficulties. You have made us drink the wine of remorse
    6: You have given a warning sign to those who fear you, so that they may flee from before the face of the bow, so that your beloved may be delivered
    7: Save me with your right hand, and hear me
    8: God has spoken in his holy place: I will rejoice, and I will divide Shechem, and I will measure the steep valley of the tabernacles
    9: Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. And Ephraim is the strength of my head. Judah is my king
    10: Moab is the cooking pot of my hope. Into Idumea, I will extend my shoe. To me, the foreigners have been made subject
    11: Who will lead me into the fortified city? Who will lead me all the way to Idumea
    12: Will not you, O God, who has rejected us? And will not you, O God, go out with our armies
    13: Grant us help from tribulation. For salvation from man is empty
    14: In God, we will act virtuously. And those who trouble us, he will lead to nothing

  Chapter 60.

    1: Unto the end. With hymns, of David
    2: O God, pay attention to my supplication. Be attentive to my prayer
    3: I cried out to you from the ends of the earth. When my heart was in anguish, you exalted me on a rock. You have led me
    4: for you have been my hope, a tower of strength before the face of the enemy
    5: I will dwell in your tabernacle forever. I will be protected under the cover of your wings
    6: For you, my God, have listened to my prayer. You have granted an inheritance to those who fear your name
    7: You will add days to the days of the king, to his years, even to the time of generation after generation
    8: He remains in eternity, in the sight of God. Who will long for his mercy and truth
    9: So I will compose a psalm to your name, forever and ever, so that I may repay my vows from day to day

End of day 150.