Day 139:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David. The fool has said in his heart, “There is no God.” They were corrupted, and they have become abominable in their studies. There is no one who does good; there is not even one
    2: The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men, to see if there were any who were considering or seeking God
    3: They have all gone astray; together they have become useless. There is no one who does good; there is not even one
    4: Their throat is an open sepulcher. With their tongues, they have been acting deceitfully; the venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness
    5: Their feet are swift to shed blood. Grief and unhappiness are in their ways; and the way of peace, they have not known
    6: There is no fear of God before their eyes
    7: Will they never learn: all those who work iniquity, who devour my people like a meal of bread
    8: They have not called upon the Lord. There, they have trembled in fear, where there was no fear
    9: For the Lord is with the just generation. You have confounded the counsel of the needy because the Lord is his hope
    10: Who will grant the salvation of Israel from Zion? When the Lord turns away the captivity of his people, Jacob will exult, and Israel will rejoice

  Chapter 14.

    1: A Psalm of David. O Lord, who will dwell in your tabernacle? Or who will rest on your holy mountain
    2: He who walks without blemish and who works justice
    3: He who speaks the truth in his heart, who has not acted deceitfully with his tongue, and has not done evil to his neighbor, and has not taken up a reproach against his neighbors
    4: In his sight, the malicious one has been reduced to nothing, but he glorifies those who fear the Lord. He who swears to his neighbor and does not deceive
    5: He who has not given his money in usury, nor accepted bribes against the innocent. He who does these things will be undisturbed for eternity

  Chapter 15.

    1: The inscription of a title: of David himself. Preserve me, O Lord, because I have hoped in you
    2: I have said to the Lord: “You are my God, so you have no need of my goodness.
    3: As for the saints, who are in his land: he has made all my desires wonderful in them
    4: Their infirmities have been multiplied; after this, they acted more quickly. I will not gather for their convocations of blood, nor will I remember their names with my lips
    5: The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and my cup. It is you who will restore my inheritance to me
    6: The lots have fallen upon me with clarity. And, indeed, my inheritance has been very clear to me
    7: I will bless the Lord, who has bestowed understanding upon me. Moreover, my temperament has also corrected me, even through the night
    8: I have made provision for the Lord always in my sight. For he is at my right hand, so that I may not be disturbed
    9: Because of this, my heart has been joyful, and my tongue has exulted. Moreover, even my body will rest in hope
    10: For you will not abandon my soul to Hell, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption
    11: You have made known to me the ways of life; you will fill me with joy by your countenance. At your right hand are delights, even to the end

  Chapter 16.

    1: A Prayer of David. Lord, listen to my justice, attend to my supplication. Pay attention to my prayer, which is not from deceitful lips
    2: Let my judgment proceed from your presence. Let your eyes behold fairness
    3: You have tested my heart and visited it by night. You have examined me by fire, and iniquity has not been found in me
    4: Therefore, may my mouth not speak the works of men. I have kept to difficult ways because of the words of your lips
    5: Perfect my steps in your paths, so that my footsteps may not be disturbed
    6: I have cried out because you, O God, have listened to me. Incline your ear to me and heed my words
    7: Make your mercies wonderful, for you save those who hope in you
    8: From those who resist your right hand, preserve me like the pupil of your eye. Protect me under the shadow of your wings
    9: from the face of the impious who have afflicted me. My enemies have surrounded my soul
    10: They have concealed their fatness; their mouth has been speaking arrogantly
    11: They have cast me out, and now they have surrounded me. They have cast their eyes down to the earth
    12: They have taken me, like a lion ready for the prey, and like a young lion dwelling in hiding
    13: Rise up, O Lord, arrive before him and displace him. Deliver my soul from the impious one: your spear from the enemies of your hand
    14: Lord, divide them from the few of the earth in their life. Their gut has been filled from your hidden stores. They have been filled with sons, and they have bequeathed to their little ones the remainder
    15: But as for me, I will appear before your sight in justice. I will be satisfied when your glory appears

End of day 139.