Day 21:

Reading Exodus, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: “But you shall also do this, so that they may be consecrated to me in the priesthood: Take a calf from the herd, and two immaculate rams
    2: and unleavened bread, and a crust without leaven that has been sprinkled with oil, likewise, unleavened cakes smeared with oil. You shall make them all from the same wheat flour
    3: And, having placed them in baskets, you shall offer them, along with the calf and the two rams
    4: And you shall bring forward Aaron and his sons, to the door of the tabernacle of the testimony. And when you will have washed the father with his sons in water
    5: you shall clothe Aaron in his vestments, that is, with the linen, and the tunic, and the ephod, and the breastplate, which you shall draw together with the wide belt
    6: And you shall place the headdress on his head and the holy plate upon the headdress
    7: And you shall pour the oil of unction over his head. And so, by this rite, he shall be consecrated
    8: Likewise, you shall bring forward his sons, and you shall clothe them in the linen tunics, and wrap them with the wide belt
    9: Aaron, certainly, as well as his sons. And you shall impose headdresses upon them. And they shall be priests to me by a perpetual ordinance. After you have initiated their hands
    10: you shall bring forward also the calf, in the presence of the tabernacle of the testimony. And Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon its head
    11: And you shall sacrifice it in the sight of the Lord, beside the door of the tabernacle of the testimony
    12: And taking some of the blood of the calf, you shall place it upon the horns of the altar with your finger, but the remainder of the blood you shall pour next to its base
    13: And you shall take all the fat which covers its intestines, and the mesh of the liver, as well as the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, and you shall offer them as a burnt offering upon the altar
    14: Yet truly, the flesh of the calf, and the hide and the dung, you shall burn outside, beyond the camp, because it is for sin
    15: Likewise, you shall take one ram, and upon its head Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands
    16: And when you will have sacrificed it, you shall take from its blood and pour it around the altar
    17: Then you shall cut the ram into pieces, and, having washed its intestines and feet, you shall place these upon the cut-up flesh and upon its head
    18: And you shall offer the entire ram as a burnt offering upon the altar. It is an oblation to the Lord, a most sweet odor of the victim of the Lord
    19: Likewise, you shall take the other ram, upon whose head Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands
    20: And when you will have immolated it, you shall take of its blood, and place it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron and his sons, and on the thumbs and big toes of their right hand and right foot, and you shall pour the blood upon the altar, all around
    21: And when you have taken from the blood that is on the altar, and from the oil of unction, you shall sprinkle Aaron and his vestment, his sons and their vestments. And after they and their vestments have been consecrated
    22: you shall take the fat of the ram, and the rump, and the lard that covers the internal organs, and the mesh of the liver, and the two kidneys along with the fat that is on them, and the right shoulder, because it is the ram of consecration
    23: and one turn of bread, a crust sprinkled with oil, and a cake from the basket of unleavened bread, which was placed in the sight of the Lord
    24: And you shall place all these in the hands of Aaron and his sons, and you shall sanctify them, lifting them up in the sight of the Lord
    25: And you shall take all these things from their hands and burn them upon the altar as a holocaust, as a most sweet odor in the sight of the Lord, because it is his oblation
    26: Likewise, you shall take the chest of the ram, with which Aaron was initiated, and you shall sanctify it, lifting it up in the sight of the Lord, and it will fall to your share
    27: And you shall sanctify both the consecrated chest and the shoulder that you separated from the ram
    28: with which Aaron was initiated with his sons, and these will fall to the share of Aaron and his sons, as a perpetual oath by the sons of Israel. For these are the greatest and the first of their victims of peace, which they offer to the Lord
    29: But the holy vestment, which Aaron shall use, his sons shall possess after him, so that they may be anointed in it and their hands may be consecrated
    30: For seven days, he who is high priest in his place and who enters the tabernacle of the testimony to minister in the Sanctuary shall use it
    31: But you shall take the ram of consecration and cook its flesh in the holy place
    32: And Aaron and his sons shall feed on it. Likewise, the loaves which are in the basket, they shall consume in the vestibule of the tabernacle of the testimony
    33: so that it may be an appeasing sacrifice, and so that the hands of those who offer may be sanctified. A stranger shall not eat from these, for they are holy
    34: And what may remain until morning, of the consecrated flesh or of the bread, you shall burn these remnants with fire. These shall not be eaten, because they have been sanctified
    35: All that I have instructed you concerning Aaron and his sons, you shall do. For seven days shall you consecrate their hands
    36: and you shall offer a calf for sin on each day, as an atonement. And you shall cleanse the altar when you will have immolated the victim of expiation, and you shall anoint it for sanctification
    37: For seven days, you shall expiate and sanctify the altar, and it shall be the Holy of holies. All those who will touch it must be sanctified
    38: This is what you shall acquire for the altar: Two one-year-old lambs, each day continually
    39: one lamb in the morning, and the other in the evening
    40: for the one lamb, a tenth part of fine flour sprinkled with crushed oil, which shall have the measure of the fourth part of a hin, and wine for a libation, of the same measure
    41: truly, the other lamb you shall offer in the evening, according to the ritual of the morning oblation, and according to what we have said, as an odor of sweetness
    42: It is a sacrifice to the Lord, by a perpetual oblation among your generations, at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony before the Lord, where I resolve to speak to you
    43: And there I will instruct the sons of Israel, and the altar shall be sanctified by my glory
    44: I will also sanctify the tabernacle of the testimony with the altar, and Aaron with his sons, to exercise the priesthood for me
    45: And I will live in the midst of the sons of Israel, and I will be their God
    46: And they shall know that I am the Lord their God, who led them away from the land of Egypt, so that I might dwell among them. I am the Lord their God.

  Chapter 30.

    1: “You shall also make an altar, for the burning of incense, from setim wood
    2: having one cubit in length, and another in width, that is, four equal sides, and two cubits in height. Horns shall proceed from the same
    3: And you shall clothe it with the purest gold, both its grating and the walls around it, and also the horns. And you shall make for it a crown of gold in a circle
    4: and two gold rings under the crown on each side, so that the bars may be set in them and the altar may be carried
    5: Also, you shall make its bars of setim wood, and you shall overlay them with gold
    6: And you shall set the altar opposite the veil, which hangs in front of the ark of the testimony, before the propitiatory with which the testimony is covered, where I will speak to you
    7: And Aaron shall burn incense upon it, a sweet fragrance, in the morning. When he lights the lamps, he shall burn it
    8: And when he assembles them in the evening, he shall burn an everlasting incense before the Lord throughout your generations
    9: You shall not offer upon it incense of another composition, nor an oblation, nor a victim; neither shall you offer libations
    10: And Aaron shall pray over its horns once a year, with the blood of what was offered for sin. And he shall make atonement over it in your generations. It shall be the Holy of holies to the Lord.
    11: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    12: “When you have taken the sum of the sons of Israel, according to their number, each shall give a price for their souls to the Lord, and there will be no scourge among them, when they will be reviewed
    13: Then all those who pass shall give by name: one half shekel, according to the measure at the temple. A shekel has twenty obols. The half part of a shekel shall be offered to the Lord
    14: He who has been numbered from twenty years and above shall give the price
    15: The rich shall not add to the half shekel, and the poor shall diminish nothing
    16: And the money received, which was collected from the sons of Israel, you shall deliver for the uses of the tabernacle of the testimony, so that it may be a memorial of them before the Lord, and he may act favorably toward their souls.
    17: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    18: “You shall also make a bronze washtub with its base to wash in; and you shall place it between the tabernacle of the testimony and the altar. And when water has been added
    19: Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and feet in it
    20: when they enter the tabernacle of the testimony, and when they approach to the altar so as to offer incense to the Lord upon it
    21: otherwise, they may die. This shall be an everlasting law to him, and to his offspring, throughout their successions.
    22: And the Lord spoke to Moses
    23: saying: “Take for yourself aromatics: of the first and best myrrh, five hundred shekels, and of cinnamon half as much, that is, two hundred and fifty shekels; of sweet flag similarly two hundred and fifty
    24: but of cassia, five hundred shekels by the weight of the sanctuary, and of the oil of olives the measure of a hin
    25: And you shall make the holy oil of unction, an ointment composed with the skills of a perfumer
    26: and with it you shall anoint the tabernacle of the testimony, and the ark of the testament
    27: and the table with its vessels, and the lampstand and it utensils, the altars of incens
    28: and of holocaust, and all the items that pertain to their rituals
    29: And you shall sanctify everything, and they shall be the Holy of holies. He who will touch them must be sanctified
    30: You shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and you shall sanctify them, so that they may exercise the priesthood for me
    31: Likewise, you shall say to the sons of Israel: ‘This oil of unction will be holy to me throughout your generations
    32: The flesh of man shall not be anointed from it, and you shall not make any similar compound, for it has been sanctified and it shall be holy to you
    33: Whatever man will have composed such a thing and have given it to a stranger, he shall be exterminated from his people.’ 
    34: And the Lord said to Moses: “Take to yourself aromatics: stacte, and onycha, galbanum of sweet odor, and the clearest frankincense, all these shall be of equal weight
    35: And you shall make incense composed with the skills of a perfumer, diligently mixed, and pure, and most worthy of sanctification
    36: And when you have crushed all these into a very fine powder, you shall place some of it before the tabernacle of the testimony, in the place where I will appear to you. The Holy of holies shall this incense be to you
    37: You shall not make such a compound for your own uses, because it is holy to the Lord
    38: Whatever man will have made anything similar, so as to thoroughly enjoy its smell, he shall perish from his people.

  Chapter 31.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: “Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah
    3: and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge in every craft
    4: in order to design whatever must be fabricated from gold, and silver, and brass
    5: from marble, and precious stones, and various woods
    6: And I have given to him, as his associate, Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan. And I have placed wisdom in the heart of every artisan, so that they may make everything as I have instructed you
    7: the tabernacle of the covenant, and the ark of the testimony, and the propitiatory which is over it, and all the vessels of the tabernacle
    8: and the table and its vessels, the most pure lampstand with its vessels, and the altars of incens
    9: and of holocaust and all their vessels, the washtub with its base
    10: the holy vestments for the ministry of Aaron the priest, and for his sons, so that they may execute their office of sacred rites
    11: the oil of unction, and the incense of aromatics in the Sanctuary. All the things that I have instructed you, they shall make.
    12: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    13: “Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: See that you keep my Sabbath. For it is a sign between me and you among your generations, so that you may know that I am the Lord, who sanctifies you
    14: Keep my Sabbath, for it is holy to you. Whoever will have polluted it, shall die a death. Whoever will have done any work in it, his soul shall perish from the midst of his people
    15:  For six days you shall do work. On the seventh day, it is the Sabbath, a rest sanctified by the Lord. All who will have done work on this day shall die
    16: Let the sons of Israel keep the Sabbath, and let them celebrate it throughout their generations. It is an everlasting covenan
    17: between me and the sons of Israel, and a perpetual sign. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and in the seventh he ceased from work.
    18: And the Lord, having completed speaking in this way on Mount Sinai, gave to Moses two stone tablets of testimony, written with the finger of God

  Chapter 32.

    1: Then the people, seeing that Moses made a delay in descending from the mountain, gathered together against Aaron, and said: “Rise up, make us gods, who may go before us. But as for this man Moses, who led us away from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has befallen him.
    2: And Aaron said to them, “Take the golden earrings from the ears of your wives, and your sons and daughters, and bring them to me.
    3: And the people did what he had commanded, carrying the earrings to Aaron
    4: And when he had received them, he formed these by the work of a casting furnace, and he made from these a molten calf. And they said: “These are your gods, O Israel, who led you away from the land of Egypt.
    5: And when Aaron had seen it, he built an altar before it, and he cried out with a voice of proclamation, saying, “Tomorrow is the solemnity of the Lord.
    6: And rising up in the morning, they offered holocausts, and peace victims, and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and they rose up to play
    7: Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: “Go, descend. Your people, whom you led away from the land of Egypt, have sinned
    8: They have quickly withdrawn from the way which you revealed to them. And they have made for themselves a molten calf, and they have worshiped it. And immolating victims to it, they have said: ‘These are your gods, O Israel, who led you away from the land of Egypt.’ 
    9: And again, the Lord said to Moses: “I discern that this people is stiff-necked
    10: Release me, so that my fury may be enraged against them, and I may destroy them, and then I will make of you a great nation.
    11: Then Moses prayed to the Lord his God, saying: “Why, O Lord, is your fury enraged against your people, whom you led away from the land of Egypt, with great strength and with a mighty hand
    12: I beg you, let not the Egyptians say, ‘He cleverly led them away, so that he could put them to death in the mountains and destroy them from the earth.’ Let your anger be quieted and appeased concerning the wickedness of your people
    13: Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your very self, saying: ‘I will multiply your offspring like the stars of heaven. And this entire land, about which I have spoken, I will give to your offspring. And you shall possess it forever.’ 
    14: And the Lord was appeased from doing the evil which he had spoken against his people
    15: And Moses returned from the mountain, carrying the two tablets of the testimony in his hand, written on both sides
    16: and accomplished by the work of God. Also, the writing of God was engraved on the tablets
    17: Then Joshua, hearing the tumult of the people shouting, said to Moses: “The outcry of battle is heard in the camp.
    18: But he responded: “It is not the clamor of men being exhorted to battle, nor the shout of men being compelled to flee. But I hear the voice of singing.
    19: And when he had approached to the camp, he saw the calf and the dances. And being very angry, he threw down the tablets from his hand, and he broke them at the base of the mountain
    20: And seizing the calf, which they had made, he burnt it and crushed it, even to dust, which he scattered into water. And he gave from it to the sons of Israel to drink
    21: And he said to Aaron, “What has this people done to you, so that you would bring upon them the greatest sin?
    22: And he answered him: “Let not my lord be indignant. For you know this people, that they are prone to evil
    23: They said to me: ‘Make gods for us, who may go before us. For this Moses, who led us away from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has befallen him.
    24: And I said to them, ‘Which of you has gold?’ And they took it and gave it to me. And I threw it into the fire, and this calf came out.
    25: Therefore, Moses, seeing that the people were naked (for Aaron had stripped them because of the disgrace of their sordidness, and he had set them naked among their enemies)
    26: and standing at the gate of the camp, said: “If anyone is for the Lord, let him join with me.” And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together to him
    27: And he said to them: “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: Let a man place his sword at his thigh. Go forth, and then return, from gate to gate, through the midst of the camp, and let each one kill his brother, and friend, and neighbor.
    28: And the sons of Levi did according to the words of Moses, and there fell on that day about twenty-three thousand men
    29: And Moses said: “On this day, you have consecrated your hands to the Lord, each one in his son and in his brother, so that a blessing may be given to you.
    30: Then, when the next day arrived, Moses spoke to the people: “You have sinned the greatest sin. I will ascend to the Lord. Perhaps, in some way, I might be able to entreat him for your wickedness.
    31: And returning to the Lord, he said: “I beg you, this people has sinned the greatest sin, and they have made for themselves gods of gold. Either release them from this offense
    32: or, if you do not, then delete me from the book that you have written.
    33: And the Lord answered him: “Whoever has sinned against me, him I will delete from my book
    34: But as for you, go and lead this people where I have told you. My angel will go before you. Then, on the day of retribution, I will also visit this sin of theirs.
    35: Therefore, the Lord struck the people for the guilt of the calf, which Aaron had made

End of day 21.