Day 172:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['145', '146', '147', '148']:

  Chapter 145.

    1: Alleluia. Of Haggai and Zachariah
    2: Praise the Lord, O my soul. I will praise the Lord with my life. I will sing psalms to my God as long as I shall be. Do not trust in the leaders
    3: in the sons of men, in whom there is no salvation
    4: His spirit will depart, and he will return to his earth. In that day, all their thoughts will perish
    5: Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob: his hope is in the Lord God himself
    6: who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all the things that are in them
    7: He preserves the truth forever. He executes judgment for those who suffer injury. He provides food for the hungry. The Lord releases those who are bound
    8: The Lord enlightens the blind. The Lord sets upright those who have been thrown down. The Lord loves the just
    9: The Lord watches over new arrivals. He will support the orphan and the widow. And he will destroy the ways of sinners
    10: The Lord shall reign forever: your God, O Zion, from generation to generation

  Chapter 146.

    1: Alleluia. Praise the Lord, because the psalm is good. Delightful and beautiful praise shall be for our God
    2: The Lord builds up Jerusalem. He will gather together the dispersed of Israel
    3: He heals the contrite of heart, and he binds up their sorrows
    4: He numbers the multitude of the stars, and he calls them all by their names
    5: Great is our Lord, and great is his virtue. And of his wisdom, there is no number
    6: The Lord lifts up the meek, but he brings down the sinner, even to the ground
    7: Sing before the Lord with confession. Play psalms to our God on a stringed instrument
    8: He covers heaven with clouds, and he prepares rain for the earth. He produces grass on the mountains and herbs for the service of men
    9: He gives their food to beasts of burden and to young ravens that call upon him
    10: He will not have good will for the strength of the horse, nor will he be well pleased with the legs of a man
    11: The Lord is well pleased with those who fear him and with those who hope in his mercy

  Chapter 147.

    1: Alleluia. Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem. Praise your God, O Zion
    2: For he has reinforced the bars of your gates. He has blessed your sons within you
    3: He has stationed peace at your borders, and he has satisfied you with the fat of the grain
    4: He sends forth his eloquence to the earth. His word runs swiftly
    5: He provides snow like wool. He strews clouds like ashes
    6: He sends his ice crystals like morsels. Who can stand firm before the face of his cold
    7: He will send forth his word, and it will melt them. His Spirit will breathe out, and the waters will flow
    8: He announces his word to Jacob, his justices and his judgments to Israel
    9: He has not done so much for every nation, and he has not made his judgments manifest to them. Alleluia

  Chapter 148.

    1: Alleluia. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise him on the heights
    2: Praise him, all his Angels. Praise him, all his hosts
    3: Praise him, sun and moon. Praise him, all stars and light
    4: Praise him, heavens of the heavens. And let all the waters that are above the heaven
    5: praise the name of the Lord. For he spoke, and they became. He commanded, and they were created
    6: He has stationed them in eternity, and for age after age. He has established a precept, and it will not pass away
    7: Praise the Lord from the earth: you dragons and all deep places
    8: fire, hail, snow, ice, windstorms, which do his word
    9: mountains and all hills, fruitful trees and all cedars
    10: wild beasts and all cattle, serpents and feathered flying things
    11: kings of the earth and all peoples, leaders and all judges of the earth
    12: young men and virgins. Let the older men with the younger men, praise the name of the Lord
    13: For his name alone is exalted
    14: Confession of him is beyond heaven and earth, and he has exalted the horn of his people. A hymn to all his holy ones, to the sons of Israel, to a people close to him. Alleluia

End of day 172.