Day 77:

Reading 1-Kings, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Hiram, the king of Tyre, also sent his servants to Solomon. For he heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father. Now Hiram had been a friend to David the entire time
    2: Then Solomon sent to Hiram, saying
    3: “You know the will of my father David, and that he was not able to build a house to the name of the Lord his God, because of the wars that were imminent all around him, until the Lord set them under the steps of his feet
    4: But now the Lord my God has given rest to me on all sides. And there is no adversary, nor occurrence of evil
    5: For this reason, I intend to build a temple to the name of the Lord my God, just as the Lord spoke to my father David, saying: ‘Your son, whom I will set in your place, upon your throne, he himself shall build a house to my name.
    6: Therefore, order that your servants may cut down for me cedars from Lebanon. And let my servants be with your servants. Then I will give to you, for the wages of your servants, whatever you will ask. For you know that there is not a man among my people who knows how to cut wood as well as the Sidonians.
    7: Therefore, when Hiram had heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly, and he said, “Blessed be the Lord God this day, who gave to David a very wise son over this numerous people!
    8: And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying: “I have heard the things that you would entrust to me. And I will do your whole will concerning the cedar trees and spruce trees
    9: My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon to the sea. And I will arrange them together as rafts on the sea, as far as the place that you will indicate to me. And I will land them there, and you will take them. And you shall offer to me what is necessary to give food to my house.
    10: And so, Hiram gave to Solomon cedar trees and spruce trees, in accord with his whole will
    11: Then Solomon offered to Hiram twenty thousand cor of wheat, as food for his house, and twenty cor of the purest oil. These things Solomon gave as a tribute to Hiram every year
    12: And the Lord gave wisdom to Solomon, just as he said to him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two struck a pact
    13: And king Solomon chose workers from all of Israel, and the conscription was of thirty thousand men
    14: And he sent them into Lebanon, ten thousand each month, in turns, so that for two months they were in their own houses. And Adoniram was over this type of conscription
    15: And Solomon had seventy thousand of those who were carrying burdens, and eighty thousand of those who cut stones from the mountain
    16: aside from the commanders who were over each work, in number three thousand and three hundred, who gave orders to the people and to those who were doing the work
    17: And the king ordered them to bring great stones, precious stones, for the foundation of the temple, and to square them
    18: And these were shaped by the stoneworkers of Solomon and the stoneworkers of Hiram. And the men of Gebal also prepared the wood and the stones in order to build the house

  Chapter 6.

    1: Then it happened that, in the four hundred and eightieth year after the sons of Israel departed from the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of the reign of Solomon over Israel, in the month of Ziv, which is the second month, the house of the Lord began to be built
    2: Now the house, which king Solomon was building to the Lord, was sixty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in width, and thirty cubits in height
    3: And a portico was before the temple, of twenty cubits in length, in accord with the measure of the width of the temple. And it had ten cubits of width before the face of the temple
    4: And he made oblique windows in the temple
    5: And upon the wall of the temple, he built panels on all sides, in the walls of the house around the temple and the oracle. And he made side chambers all around
    6: The flooring on the bottom level held five cubits in width, and the middle floor was six cubits in width, and the third floor held seven cubits in width. Then he positioned beams on the house all around the outside, in such a way that they would not be fastened to the walls of the temple
    7: Now the house, while it was being built, was made from cut and finished stones. And so, neither mallet, nor chisel, nor any tool of iron was heard in the house while it was being built
    8: The door at the side of the middle section was to the right of the house. And they would ascend along winding stairs to the middle level, and from the middle level to the third level
    9: And he built the house, and finished it. And he overlaid the house with boards of cedar
    10: And he built a paneling over the entire house, five cubits in height, and he covered the house with cedar wood
    11: And the word of the Lord came to Solomon, saying
    12: “Concerning this house, which you are building: if you will walk in my precepts, and carry out my judgments, and keep all my commandments, advancing by them, I will confirm my word to you, which I spoke to your father David
    13: And I will dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel, and I will not forsake my people Israel.
    14: And so, Solomon built the house, and finished it
    15: And he built the walls of the house, on the interior, with panels of cedar, from the floor of the house, to the top of the walls, and even to the ceiling. He covered it with cedar wood on the interior. And he overlaid the floor of the house with panels of spruce
    16: And he built panels of cedar, of twenty cubits, at the back part of the temple, from the floor even to the top. And he made the inner house of the oracle as the Holy of Holies
    17: And the temple itself, before the doors of the oracle, was forty cubits
    18: And the entire house was clothed with cedar on the interior, having its turnings and junctures artfully wrought, with carvings projecting outward. Everything was clothed with panels of cedar. And no stone at all was able to be seen in the wall
    19: Now he made the oracle in the middle of the house, in the inner part, so that he might station the ark of the covenant of the Lord there
    20: And the oracle held twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in width, and twenty cubits in height. And he covered and clothed it with the purest gold. Then, too, he clothed the altar in cedar
    21: Also, the house before the oracle, he covered with the purest gold, and he fastened the plates with nails of gold
    22: And there was nothing in the temple that was not covered with gold. Moreover, the entire altar of the oracle he overlaid with gold
    23: And he made in the oracle two cherubim from wood of the olive tree, of ten cubits in height
    24: One wing of a cherub was five cubits, and the other wing of a cherub was five cubits, that is, having ten cubits from the summit of one wing even to the summit of the other wing
    25: Likewise, the second cherub was ten cubits. And the measure was equal and the work was one, in the two cherubim
    26: that is, one cherub had a height of ten cubits, and similarly the second cherub
    27: And he stationed the cherubim in the middle of the inner temple. And the cherubim extended their wings, and the wing of the one was touching the wall, and the wing of the second cherub was touching the other wall. But the other wings, in the middle of the temple, were touching each another
    28: He also overlaid the cherubim with gold
    29: And all the walls of the temple all around he engraved with diverse carvings and turnings. And he made in them cherubim, and palm trees, and various images, as if these were projecting out, and going forth from, the wall
    30: Then, too, the floor of the house he overlaid with gold within and without
    31: And at the entrance of the oracle, he made little doors, from wood of the olive tree, with posts of five corners
    32: And there were two doors, from wood of the olive tree. And he carved upon them pictures of cherubim, and images of palm trees, and very prominent figures. And he overlaid these with gold. And he covered the cherubim, as well as the palm trees and the other things, with gold
    33: And he made, at the entrance of the temple, posts from wood of the olive tree, with four corners
    34: and two doors, from wood of the spruce tree, on the other side. And each door was double, and so it opened by folding upon itself
    35: And he carved cherubim, and palm trees, and very prominent engravings. And he covered everything with gold plates, worked to be perfectly square
    36: And he built the inner atrium with three rows of polished stones, and one row of cedar wood
    37: In the fourth year, the house of the Lord was founded, in the month of Ziv
    38: And in the eleventh year, in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was perfected in all its works and in all its equipment. And he built it for seven years

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now Solomon built his own house for thirteen years, and he brought it to perfection
    2: And he built the house from the forest of Lebanon: one hundred cubits in length, and fifty cubits in width, and thirty cubits in height, with four walkways between columns of cedar. For he had hewn the cedar trees into columns
    3: And he clothed the entire vaulted room with panels of cedar. And it was supported by forty-five columns. Now one row held fifteen columns
    4: each positioned opposite another
    5: and looking toward one another, with equal spacing between the columns. And above the columns there were square beams equal in all things
    6: And he made a portico of columns, fifty cubits in length and thirty cubits in width, and another portico, facing the greater portico, with columns and with crossbeams upon the columns
    7: He also made the portico of the throne, in which is the tribunal. And he overlaid it with cedar wood, from the floor even to the summit
    8: And in the midst of the portico, there was a small house, where he would sit in judgment, similar in workmanship. He also made a house for the daughter of Pharaoh (whom Solomon had taken as wife) of the same work and type as this portico
    9: All was of precious stones, which had been sawed by a particular standard and measure, as much within as without, from the foundation even to the summit of the walls, and outside even to the great atrium
    10: Now the foundations were of precious stones: great stones of eight or ten cubits
    11: And above these, there were precious stones, of equal measure, which had been cut in a manner similar to boards of cedar
    12: And the great atrium was round, with three rows of cut stones and one row of cut cedar, even as it also was in the interior atrium of the house of the Lord, and in the portico of the house
    13: And king Solomon sent and brought Hiram of Tyre
    14: the son of a widowed woman, from the tribe of Naphtali, whose father was a Tyrian, an artisan in brass, and full of wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge in order to form every work of brass. And when he had gone to king Solomon, he wrought all his work
    15: And he cast two columns of brass. Each column was eighteen cubits in height, and a line of twelve cubits encompassed both columns
    16: Also, he made two heads of molten brass, which would be set upon the tops of the columns: one head was five cubits in height, and the other head was five cubits in height
    17: And there was something like a network of chains, woven together in a wonderful manner. Both heads of the columns were cast, and seven rows of little nets traversed one head, and seven little nets were on the other head
    18: And he finished the columns with two rows all around each network, so that these covered the heads, which were at the top, with pomegranates. And he did in like manner to the second head
    19: Now the heads that were at the top of the columns, in the portico of four cubits, had been fabricated with a work of lilies
    20: And again, there were other heads at the tops of the columns above, in accord with the measure of the column opposite the netting. And there were two hundred of the pomegranates, in rows around the second head
    21: And he stationed the two columns in the portico of the temple. And when he had stationed the column on the right, he called its name Jachin. Similarly, he erected the second column, and he called its name Boaz
    22: And above the tops of the columns, he set a work in the manner of lilies. And the work of the columns was perfected
    23: He also made a molten sea, of ten cubits from brim to brim, rounded on all sides. Its height was five cubits, and a thin rope of thirty cubits wrapped it all around
    24: And a sculpted work under the brim encircled it for ten cubits going around the sea. There were two rows cast of striated sculptures
    25: And it was standing upon twelve oxen, of which three were looking toward the north, and three toward the west, and three toward the south, and three toward the east. And the sea above was over them. And their posteriors were entirely hidden within
    26: And the basin was the thickness of three twelfths. And its brim was like the brim of a chalice, or like the outturned petal of a lily. It contained two thousand baths
    27: And he made ten bases of brass: each base was four cubits in length, and four cubits in width, and three cubits in height
    28: And the work itself of the bases was engraved; and there were sculptures between the junctures
    29: And between the little crowns and the edges, there were lions, and oxen, and cherubim; and similarly in the junctures above. And under the lions and oxen were something like bands of brass hanging down
    30: And each base had four wheels, with axels of brass. And at the four sides were something like little arms, under the cast basin, facing away from one another
    31: Also, the mouth of the interior of the basin was at the top of the head. And what was visible outside was of one cubit all around, and altogether it had one cubit and a half. Now at the corners of the columns were diverse engravings. And the spaces between the columns were square, not round
    32: And the four wheels, which were at the four corners of the base, were joined to one another under the base. The height of one wheel held one cubit and a half
    33: Now these were the kind of wheels such as are often made for a chariot. And their axels, and spokes, and tires, and centers were all cast
    34: And the four little arms, which were at each corner of a base, were cast and joined together as part of the base itself
    35: And at the summit of the base, there was a round stand of one half cubit, fabricated so that the basin could be placed upon it, having its engravings, and various sculptures of its own
    36: He also engraved those plates, which were of brass. And at the corners were cherubim, and lions, and palm trees, standing out, as if in the likeness of a man, so that they seemed not to be engraved, but placed adjacent on all sides
    37: In this manner, he made ten bases with the same casting and measure, and very similar engravings
    38: He also made ten hand basins of brass. One hand basin contained four baths, and was of four cubits. And each basin he set upon a base, which is ten bases
    39: And he stationed the ten bases, five to the right side of the temple, and five to the left. And the sea he placed to the right side of the temple, opposite the east, toward the south
    40: Then Hiram made cooking pots, and trays, and small hooks. And he completed all the work of king Solomon in the temple of the Lord
    41: the two columns, and the two cords of the heads over the tops of the columns, and the two networks which covered the two cords that were above the tops of the columns
    42: and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two turnings of pomegranates for each network, in order to cover the cords of the heads, which were above the tops of the columns
    43: and the ten bases, and the ten basins on the bases
    44: and the one sea, and the twelve oxen under the sea
    45: and the cooking pots, and the trays, and the small hooks. All of the items that Hiram made for king Solomon, for the house of the Lord, were of golden brass
    46: In the open regions near the Jordan, the king cast these, in the clay soil between Succoth and Zarethan
    47: And Solomon positioned all the items. But because of its exceedingly great amount, the brass was not weighed
    48: And Solomon made all the furniture for the house of the Lord: the altar of gold, and the table of gold, upon which the bread of the presence would be placed
    49: and the gold lampstands, five to the right, and five to the left, opposite the oracle, of pure gold; and likenesses of lily blossoms, with lamps above them, of gold; and gold tongs
    50: and water pots, and little forks, and bowls, and little mortars, and censers, of the purest gold; and the hinges of the doors, for the interior house of the Holy of Holies and for the doors of the house of the temple, which were of gold
    51: And Solomon perfected all the work that he was doing in the house of the Lord. And he brought in the things that his father David had sanctified: the silver, and the gold, and the vessels. And he stored these in the treasuries of the house of the Lord

  Chapter 8.

    1: Then all those greater by birth of Israel, with the leaders of the tribes and the rulers of the families of the sons of Israel, gathered together before king Solomon at Jerusalem, so that they might carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, from the city of David, that is, from Zion
    2: And all of Israel assembled before king Solomon, on the solemn day in the month of Ethanim, which is the seventh month
    3: And all the elders of Israel arrived, and the priests took up the ark
    4: And they carried the ark of the Lord, and the tabernacle of the covenant, and all the vessels of the Sanctuary, which were in the tabernacle; and the priests and the Levites carried these
    5: Then king Solomon, and the entire multitude of Israel, who had assembled before him, advanced with him before the ark. And they immolated sheep and oxen, which could not be numbered or estimated
    6: And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place, into the oracle of the temple, in the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the cherubim
    7: For indeed, the cherubim extended their wings over the place of the ark, and they protected the ark and its bars from above
    8: And since the bars projected outward, their ends were visible from without, in the Sanctuary before the oracle; but they were not visible farther outward. And they have been in that place even to the present day
    9: Now inside the ark, there was nothing other than the two tablets of stone, which Moses had placed in it at Horeb, when the Lord formed a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they departed from the land of Egypt
    10: Then it happened that, when the priests had exited from the Sanctuary, a cloud filled the house of the Lord
    11: And the priests were unable to stand and minister, because of the cloud. For the glory of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord
    12: Then Solomon said: “The Lord has said that he would dwell in a cloud
    13: Building, I have built a house as your dwelling place, your most firm throne forever.
    14: And the king turned his face, and he blessed the entire assembly of Israel. For the entire assembly of Israel was standing
    15: And Solomon said: “Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to my father David, and who, with his own hands, has perfected it, saying
    16: ‘From the day when I led my people Israel away from Egypt, I did not choose any city out of all the tribes of Israel, so that a house would be built, and so that my name might be there. Instead, I chose David to be over my people Israel.
    17: And my father David wanted to build a house to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel
    18: But the Lord said to my father David: ‘Since you have planned in your heart to build a house to my name, you have done well by considering this plan in your mind
    19: Yet truly, you shall not build a house for me. Instead, your son, who shall go forth from your loins, he himself shall build a house to my name.
    20: The Lord has confirmed his word which he spoke. And so I stand in place of my father David, and I sit upon the throne of Israel, just as the Lord said. And I have built a house to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel
    21: And there I have appointed a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the Lord that he struck with our fathers, when they went forth from the land of Egypt.
    22: Then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord, in the sight of the assembly of Israel, and he extended his hands toward heaven
    23: And he said: “Lord God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above, nor on the earth below. You preserve covenant and mercy with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart
    24: You have fulfilled, for your servant David, my father, that which you said to him. With your mouth, you spoke; and with your hands, you completed; just as this day proves
    25: Now therefore, O Lord God of Israel, fulfill, for your servant David, my father, that which you spoke to him, saying, ‘There shall not be taken away from you a man before me, who may sit upon the throne of Israel, if only your sons will guard their way, so that they walk before me, just as you have walked in my sight.
    26: And now, O Lord God of Israel, establish your words, which you spoke to your servant David, my father
    27: Is it, then, to be understood that truly God would dwell upon the earth? For if heaven, and the heavens of heavens, are not able to contain you, how much less this house, which I have built
    28: Yet look with favor upon the prayer of your servant and upon his petitions, O Lord, my God. Listen to the hymn and the prayer, which your servant prays before you this day
    29: so that your eyes may be open over this house, night and day, over the house about which you said, ‘My name shall be there,’ so that you may heed the prayer that your servant is praying in this place to you
    30: So may you heed the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel, whatever they will pray for in this place, and so may you heed them in your dwelling place in heaven. And when you heed, you will be gracious
    31: But if any man sins against his neighbor, and he has any kind of an oath by which he is bound, and he arrives because of the oath, before your altar in your house
    32: you will hear in heaven, and you will act and judge your servants, condemning the impious, and repaying his own way upon his own head, but justifying the just, and rewarding him in accord with his justice
    33: And if your people Israel will have fled from their enemies, because they have sinned against you, and doing penance and confessing to your name, shall arrive and pray and petition you in this house
    34: listen in heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and lead them back to the land, which you gave to their fathers
    35: And if the heavens have closed, so that there is no rain, because of their sins, and they, praying in this place, shall do penance to your name, and shall be converted from their sins, by occasion of their afflictions
    36: hear them from heaven, and forgive the sins of your servants and of your people Israel. And reveal to them the good way, along which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as a possession
    37: Then, if famine rises over the land, or pestilence, or corrupt air, or blight, or locust, or mildew, or if their enemy afflicts them, besieging the gates, or any harm or infirmity
    38: or whatever curse or divine intervention may happen to any man among your people Israel, if anyone understands, having been wounded in his heart, and if he will have extended his hands in this house
    39: you will hear in heaven, in your dwelling place, and you will forgive. And you will act so that you give to each one in accord with his own ways, just as you see in his heart, for you alone know the heart of all the sons of men
    40: So may they fear you, all the days that they live upon the face of the land, which you have given to our fathers
    41: Moreover, the foreigner too, who is not of your people Israel, when he will have arrived from a distant land because of your name, for they shall hear about your great name, and your strong hand
    42: and your outstretched arm everywhere: so when he arrives and prays in this place
    43: you will listen in heaven, in the firmament of your dwelling place. And you will do all the things, for which that foreigner will have called upon you. So may all the peoples of the earth learn to fear your name, just as your people Israel do. And so may they show that your name has been invoked over this house, which I have built
    44: And if your people have gone out to war against their enemies, along whatever way you will send them, they shall pray to you in the direction of the city, which you have chosen, and toward the house, which I have built to your name
    45: And you will hear in heaven their prayers and their petitions. And you will accomplish judgment for them
    46: But if they sin against you, for there is no man who does not sin, and you, being angry, deliver them to their enemies, and they will have been led away as captives to the land of their enemies, whether far or near
    47: and if they do penance in their heart, in the place of captivity, and having been converted, make supplication to you in their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned; we acted unjustly; we committed impiety,
    48: and they return to you with all their heart and all their soul, in the land of their enemies, to which they have been led away as captives, and if they pray to you in the direction of their land, which you gave to their fathers, and of the city, which you have chosen, and of the temple, which I have built to your name
    49: you will hear in heaven, in the firmament of your throne, their prayers and their petitions. And you will accomplish their judgment
    50: And you will forgive your people, who have sinned against you, and all their iniquities, by which they have transgressed against you. And you will grant to them mercy in the sight of those who have made them captives, so that they may take pity on them
    51: For they are your people and your inheritance, whom you have led away from the land of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace of iron
    52: So may your eyes be open to the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel. And so may you heed them in all the things about which they will call upon you
    53: For you have separated them to yourself as an inheritance, from among all the peoples of the earth, just as you spoke by Moses, your servant, when you led our fathers away from Egypt, O Lord God.
    54: And it happened that, when Solomon had completed praying this entire prayer and supplication to the Lord, he rose up from the sight of the altar of the Lord. For he had fixed both knees upon the ground, and he had extended his hands toward heaven
    55: Then he stood and blessed the entire assembly of Israel in a great voice, saying
    56: “Blessed is the Lord, who has given rest to his people Israel, in accord with all that he said. Not even one word, out of all the good things that he spoke by his servant Moses, has fallen away
    57: May the Lord our God be with us, just as he was with our fathers, not abandoning us, and not rejecting us
    58: But may he incline our hearts to himself, so that we may walk in all his ways, and keep his commandments, and his ceremonies, and whatever judgments he commanded to our fathers
    59: And may these my words, by which I have prayed before the Lord, be near to the Lord our God, day and night, so that he may accomplish judgment for his servant and for his people Israel, throughout each day
    60: So may all the peoples of the earth know that the Lord himself is God, and there is no other beside him
    61: Also, may our hearts be perfect with the Lord our God, so that we may walk in his decrees, and keep his commandments, as also on this day.
    62: Then the king, and all of Israel with him, immolated victims before the Lord
    63: And Solomon slew sacrifices of peace offerings, which he immolated to the Lord: twenty-two thousand oxen, and twenty thousand one hundred sheep. And the king and all the sons of Israel dedicated the temple of the Lord
    64: On that day, the king sanctified the middle of the atrium, which was before the house of the Lord. For in that place, he offered holocaust, and sacrifice, and the fat of peace offerings. For the bronze altar, which was before the Lord, was too small and was not able to hold the holocaust, and the sacrifice, and the fat of the peace offerings
    65: Then Solomon made, at that time, a celebratory festival, and all of Israel with him, a great multitude, from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt, in the sight of the Lord our God, for seven days plus seven days, that is, fourteen days
    66: And on the eighth day, he dismissed the people. And blessing the king, they set out for their tents, rejoicing and cheerful in heart over all the good things that the Lord had done for his servant David and for his people Israel

End of day 77.