Day 11:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: After two years, Pharaoh saw a dream. He thought himself to be standing above a river
    2: from which ascended seven cows, exceedingly beautiful and stout. And they pastured in marshy places
    3: Likewise, another seven emerged from the river, filthy and thoroughly emaciated. And they pastured on the same bank of the river, in green places
    4: And they devoured those whose appearance and condition of body was so wonderful. Pharaoh, having been awakened
    5: slept again, and he saw another dream. Seven ears of grain sprung up on one stalk, full and well-formed
    6: Likewise, other ears of grain, of the same number, rose up, thin and struck with blight
    7: devouring all the beauty of the first. Pharaoh, when he awakened after his rest
    8: and when morning arrived, being terrified with fear, sent to all the interpreters of Egypt and to all of the wise men. And when they were summoned, he explained to them his dream; but there was no one who could interpret it
    9: Then at last the chief cupbearer, remembering, said, “I confess my sin
    10: The king, being angry with his servants, ordered me and the chief miller of grain to be forced into the prison of the leader of the military
    11: There, in one night, both of us saw a dream presaging the future
    12: In that place, there was a Hebrew, a servant of the same commander of the military, to whom we explained our dreams
    13: Whatever we heard was proven afterwards by the event of the matter. For I was restored to my office, and he was suspended on a cross.
    14: Immediately, by the king’s authority, Joseph was led out of prison, and they shaved him. And changing his apparel, they presented him to him
    15: And he said to him, “I have seen dreams, and there is no one who can unfold them. I have heard that you are very wise at interpreting these.
    16: Joseph responded, “Apart from me, God will respond favorably to Pharaoh.
    17: Therefore, Pharaoh explained what he had seen: “I thought myself to be standing on the bank of a river
    18: and seven cows climbed up from the river, exceedingly beautiful and full of flesh. And they grazed in a pasture of a marshy greenery
    19: And behold, there followed after these, another seven cows, with such deformity and emaciation as I had never seen in the land of Egypt
    20: These devoured and consumed the first
    21: giving no indication of being full. But they remained in the same state of emaciation and squalor. Awakening, but being weighed down into sleep again
    22: I saw a dream. Seven ears of grain sprang up on one stalk, full and very beautiful
    23: Likewise, another seven, thin and struck with blight, rose up from the stalk
    24: And they devoured the beauty of the first. I explained this dream to the interpreters, and there is no one who can unfold it.
    25: Joseph responded: “The dream of the king is one. What God will do, he has revealed to Pharaoh
    26: The seven beautiful cows, and the seven full ears of grain, are seven years of abundance. And so the force of the dreams is understood to be the same
    27: Likewise, the seven thin and emaciated cows, which ascended after them, and the seven thin ears of grain, which were struck with the burning wind, are seven approaching years of famine
    28: These will be fulfilled in this order
    29: Behold, there will arrive seven years of great fertility throughout the entire land of Egypt
    30: After this, there will follow another seven years, of such great barrenness that all the former abundance will be delivered into oblivion. For the famine will consume all the land
    31: and the greatness of this destitution will cause the greatness of the abundance to be lost
    32: Now, as to what you saw the second time, it is a dream pertaining to the same thing. It is an indication of its firmness, because the word of God shall be done, and it shall be completed swiftly
    33: Now therefore, let the king provide a wise and industrious man, and place him over the land of Egypt
    34: so that he may appoint overseers throughout all the regions. And let a fifth part of the fruits, throughout the seven fertile year
    35: that now have already begun to occur, be gathered into storehouses. And let all the grain be stored away, under the power of Pharaoh, and let it be kept in the cities
    36: And let it be prepared for the future famine of seven years, which will oppress Egypt, and then the land will not be consumed by destitution.
    37: The counsel pleased Pharaoh and all his ministers
    38: And he said to them, “Would we be able to find another such man, who is full of the Spirit of God?
    39: Therefore, he said to Joseph: “Because God has revealed to you all that you have said, would I be able to find anyone wiser and as much like you
    40: You will be over my house, and to the authority of your mouth, all the people will show obedience. Only in one way, in the throne of the kingdom, will I go before you.
    41: And again, Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Behold, I have appointed you over the entire land of Egypt.
    42: And he took the ring from his own hand, and he gave it into his hand. And he clothed him with a robe of fine linen, and he placed a necklace of gold around his neck
    43: And he caused him to ascend upon his second swift chariot, with the herald proclaiming that everyone should bend their knee before him, and that they should know that he was governor over the entire land of Egypt
    44: Likewise, the king said to Joseph: “I am Pharaoh: apart from your authority, no one will move hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
    45: And he changed his name and called him, in the Egyptian tongue: ‘Savior of the world.’ And he gave him as a wife, Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of Heliopolis. And so Joseph went out into the land of Egypt
    46: (Now he was thirty years old when he stood in the sight of king Pharaoh.) And he traveled throughout the regions of Egypt
    47: And the fertility of the seven years arrived. And when the grain fields were reduced to sheaves, these were gathered into the storehouses of Egypt
    48: And now all the abundance of grain was stored away in every city
    49: And there was such a great abundance of wheat that it was comparable to the sands of the sea, and its bounty exceeded all measure
    50: Then, before the famine arrived, Joseph had two sons born, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of Heliopolis, bore for him
    51: And he called the name of the firstborn Manasseh, saying, “God has caused me to forget all my labors and the house of my father.
    52: Likewise, he named the second Ephraim, saying, “God has caused me to increase in the land of my poverty.
    53: And so, when the seven years of fertility that occurred in Egypt had passed
    54: the seven years of destitution, which Joseph had predicted, began to arrive. And the famine prevailed throughout the whole world, but there was bread in all the land of Egypt
    55: And being hungry, the people cried out to Pharaoh, asking for provisions. And he said to them: “Go to Joseph. And do whatever he will tell you.
    56: Then the famine increased daily in all the land. And Joseph opened all of the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians. For the famine had oppressed them also
    57: And all the provinces came to Egypt, to buy food and to temper the misfortune of their destitution

  Chapter 42.

    1: Then Jacob, hearing that food was being sold in Egypt, said to his sons: “Why are you negligent
    2: I have heard that wheat is being sold in Egypt. Go down and buy necessities for us, so that we may be able to live, and not be consumed by destitution.
    3: And so, when ten brothers of Joseph went down to buy grain in Egypt
    4: Benjamin was kept at home by Jacob, who said to his brothers, “Lest perhaps he may suffer harm on the journey.
    5: And they entered into the land of Egypt with the others who traveled to buy. For the famine was in the land of Canaan
    6: And Joseph was governor in the land of Egypt, and grain was sold under his direction to the people. And when his brothers had reverenced hi
    7: and he had recognized them, he spoke harshly, as if to foreigners, questioning them: “Where did you come from?” And they responded, “From the land of Canaan, to buy necessary provisions.
    8: And although he knew his brothers, he was not known by them
    9: And remembering the dreams, which he had seen in another time, he said to them: “You are scouts. You have come in order to see which parts of the land are weaker.
    10: And they said: “It is not so, my lord. But your servants have arrived in order to buy food
    11: We are all sons of one man. We have come in peace, nor do any of your subjects devise evil.
    12: And he answered them: “It is otherwise. You have come to examine the unguarded parts of this land.
    13: But they said: “We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan. The youngest is with our father; the other is not living.
    14: He said: “This is just as I have said. You are scouts
    15: I will now continue to put you to the test. By the health of Pharaoh, you will not depart from here, until your youngest brother arrives
    16: Send one of you and bring him. But you will be in chains, until what you have said is proven to be either true or false. Otherwise, by the health of Pharaoh, you are scouts.
    17: Therefore, he delivered them into custody for three days
    18: Then, on the third day, he brought them out of prison, and he said: “Do as I have said, and you will live. For I fear God
    19: If you are peaceful, let one of your brothers be bound in prison. Then you may go away and carry the grain that you have bought to your houses
    20: And bring your youngest brother to me, so that I may be able to test your words, and you may not die.” They did as he had said
    21: and they spoke to one another: “We deserve to suffer these things, because we have sinned against our brother, seeing the anguish of his soul, when he begged us and we would not listen. For that reason, this tribulation has come upon us.
    22: And Reuben, one of them, said: “Did not I say to you, ‘Do not sin against the boy,’ and you would not listen to me? See, his blood is exacted.
    23: But they did not know that Joseph understood, because he was speaking to them through an interpreter
    24: And he turned himself away briefly and wept. And returning, he spoke to them
    25: And taking Simeon, and binding him in their presence, he ordered his ministers to fill their sacks with wheat, and to replace each one’s money in their sacks, and to give them, in addition, provisions for the way. And they did so
    26: Then, having loaded their donkeys with the grain, they set out
    27: And one of them, opening a sack to give his beast of burden fodder at the inn, looked upon the money at the sack’s mouth
    28: and he said to his brothers: “My money has returned to me. See, it is held in the sack.” And they were astonished and troubled, and they said to one another, “What is this that God has done to us?
    29: And they went to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan, and they explained to him all the things that had befallen them, saying
    30: “The lord of the land spoke harshly to us, and he considered us to be scouts of the province
    31: And we answered him: ‘We are peaceful, and we do not intend any treachery
    32: We are twelve brothers conceived of one father. One is not living; the youngest is with our father in the land of Canaan.
    33: And he said to us: ‘Thus will I prove that you are peaceful. Release one of your brothers to me, and take necessary provisions for your houses, and go away
    34: and bring your youngest brother to me, so that I may know that you are not scouts. And this one, who is held in chains, you may be able to receive again. And thereafter, you shall have permission to buy what you want.’ 
    35: Having said this, when they poured out their grain, each found his money tied to the mouth of his sack. And all were terrified together
    36: Their father Jacob said, “You have caused me to be without children. Joseph is not living, Simeon is held in chains, and Benjamin you would carry away. All these evils have fallen back upon me.
    37: And Reuben answered him, “Put my two sons to death, if I do not lead him back to you. Deliver him into my hand, and I will restore him to you.
    38: But he said: “My son will not go down with you. His brother is dead, and he is left alone. If any adversity will befall him in the land to which you travel, you would lead my grey hairs down with sorrow to the grave.

  Chapter 43.

    1: Meanwhile, the famine pressed heavily on all the land
    2: And having consumed the provisions that they had brought out of Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, “Return and buy us a little food.
    3: Judah answered: “The man himself declared to us, under the attestation of an oath, saying: ‘You will not see my face, unless you bring your youngest brother with you.
    4: If therefore you are willing to send him with us, we will travel together, and we will buy necessities for you
    5: But if you are not willing, we will not go. For the man, as we have often said, declared to us, saying: ‘You will not see my face without your youngest brother.’ 
    6: Israel said to them, “You have done this for my misery, in that you revealed to him that you also had another brother.
    7: But they responded: “The man questioned us in order, concerning our family: whether our father lived, if we had a brother. And we answered him respectively, according to what he demanded. How could we know that he would say, ‘Bring your brother with you?’ 
    8: Likewise, Judah said to his father: “Send the boy with me, so that we may set out and be able to live, lest we and our little ones should die
    9: I accept the boy; require him at my hand. Unless I lead him back and restore him to you, I will be guilty of a sin against you for all time
    10: If a delay had not intervened, by now we would have returned here a second time.
    11: Therefore, their father Israel said to them: “If it is necessary to do so, then do what you will. Take, in your vessels, from the best fruits of the land, and carry down gifts to the man: a little resin, and honey, and storax ointment, oil of myrrh, turpentine, and almonds
    12: Also, take with you double the money, and carry back what you found in your sacks, lest perhaps it was done in error
    13: But also take your brother, and go to the man
    14: Then may my Almighty God cause him to be pleased by you. And send your brother, whom he holds, back with you, along with this one, Benjamin. But as for me, without my children, I will be like one who is bereaved.
    15: Therefore, the men took the gifts, and double the money, and Benjamin. And they went down into Egypt, and they stood in the presence of Joseph
    16: And when he had seen them and Benjamin together, he instructed the steward of his house, saying: “Lead the men into the house, and kill victims, and prepare a feast, because they will be eating with me at midday.
    17: He did what he had been ordered to do, and he brought the men into the house
    18: And there, being terrified, they said one to another: “Because of the money, which we carried back the first time in our sacks, we have been brought in, so that he may unleash a false accusation against us, and by violence subjugate both us and our donkeys into servitude.
    19: For this reason, approaching the steward of the house at his door
    20: they said: “We beg you, lord, to hear us. We came down once before to buy food
    21: And having bought it, when we arrived at the inn, we opened our sacks and found the money in the mouths of the sacks, which we now have carried back in the same amount
    22: But we have also brought other silver, so that we may buy those things that are necessary for us. It is not on our conscience who had placed it in our bags.
    23: But he responded: “Peace be with you. Do not be afraid. Your God, and the God of your father, has given you the treasure in your sacks. As for the money that you gave to me, I held it as a test.” And he led Simeon out to them
    24: And having led them into the house, he brought water, and they washed their feet, and he gave fodder to their donkeys
    25: But they also prepared the gifts, until Joseph entered at midday. For they had heard that they would eat bread there
    26: And so Joseph entered his house, and they offered him the gifts, holding them in their hands. And they reverenced prone on the ground
    27: But he, gently greeting them again, questioned them, saying: “Is your father, the old man about whom you spoke to me, in good health? Is he still alive?
    28: And they answered: “Your servant, our father, is safe; he is still alive.” And bowing, they reverenced him
    29: Then Joseph, lifting up his eyes, saw Benjamin, his brother of the same womb, and he said, “Is this your little brother, about whom you spoke to me?” And again, he said, “May God be compassionate to you, my son.
    30: And he hurried out, because his heart had been moved over his brother, and tears gushed out. And going into his chamber, he wept
    31: And when he had washed his face, coming out again, he composed himself, and he said, “Set out bread.
    32: And when it was set out, separately for Joseph, and separately for his brothers, likewise separately for the Egyptians, who ate at the same time, (for it is unlawful for Egyptians to eat with Hebrews, and they consider feasting in this way to be profane
    33: they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his state of life. And they wondered exceedingly
    34: taking the portions that they received from him. And the greater portion went to Benjamin, so much so that it exceeded five parts. And they drank and became inebriated along with him

  Chapter 44.

    1: Then Joseph instructed the steward of his house, saying: “Fill their sacks with grain, as much as they are able to hold. And place each one’s money at the top of the sack
    2: But place my silver bowl, and the price that he gave for the wheat, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest.” And so it was done
    3: And when morning arose, they were sent away with their donkeys
    4: And now they had departed from the city and had set out a short distance. Then Joseph, sending for the steward of his house, said: “Rise up and pursue the men. And when you have overtaken them, say: ‘Why have you returned evil for good
    5: The cup that you have stolen, it is that from which my lord drinks, and in which he is accustomed to discern signs. You have done a very sinful thing.’ 
    6: He did as he had been ordered. And having overtaken them, he spoke to them according to the order
    7: And they responded: “Why does our lord speak in this way, as though your servants had committed such a shameful act
    8: The money, which we found at the top of our sacks, we carried back to you from the land of Canaan. So in what way does it follow that we would steal, from the house of your lord, gold or silver
    9: Whichever of your servants will be found to have what you seek, may he die, and we shall be the servants of my lord.
    10: And he said to them: “Let it be according to your verdict. With whomever it will be found, let him be my servant, but you will be unharmed.
    11: And so, they quickly placed their sacks down to the ground, and each one was opened
    12: And when he had searched, beginning with the oldest, all the way to the youngest, he found the cup in Benjamin’s sack
    13: But they, tearing their garments and burdening their donkeys again, returned to the town
    14: And Judah, first among his brothers, entered to Joseph (for he had not yet departed from the place) and together they all fell down before him to the ground
    15: And he said to them: “Why would you choose to act in this way? Could you be ignorant that there is no one like me in the knowledge of discerning signs?
    16: And Judah said to him, “What could we answer to my lord? And what would we be able to say, or to justly claim? God has discovered the iniquity of your servants. See, we have all become servants to my lord, both we, and he with whom the cup was found.
    17: Joseph responded: “Far be it from me that I should act in this way. He who stole the cup, he will be my servant. But you may go away free to your father.
    18: Then Judah, approaching closer, said confidently: “I beg you, my lord, let your servant speak a word in your ears, and do not be angry with your servant. For you are next to Pharaoh
    19: My lord, you questioned your servants before: ‘Do you have a father or a brother?
    20: And we answered you, my lord: ‘There is our father, an old man, and a young boy, who was born in his old age. His brother of the same womb has died, and he alone is left to his mother and father, who truly love him tenderly.
    21: And you said to your servants, ‘Bring him to me, and I will set my eyes on him.
    22: We suggested to my lord: ‘The boy is not able to leave his father. For if he sends him away, he will die.
    23: And you said to your servants: ‘Unless your youngest brother arrives with you, you will not see my face any more.
    24: Therefore, when we had gone up to your servant our father, we explained to him all that my lord had spoken
    25: And our father said: ‘Return and buy us a little wheat.
    26: And we said to him: ‘We cannot go. If our youngest brother descends with us, we will set out together. Otherwise, in his absence, we do not dare to see the face of the man.
    27: To which he responded: ‘You know that my wife conceived twice by me
    28: One went out, and you said, “A beast devoured him.” And since then, he has not appeared
    29: If you take this one also, and anything happens to him on the way, you will lead my grey hairs down with grief to the grave.
    30: Therefore, if I would have gone to your servant, our father, with the boy not present, (though his life depends upon the life of him
    31: and if he were to see that he is not with us, he would die, and your servants will lead his grey hairs down with sorrow to the grave
    32: Let me be your very own servant, for I accepted this one into my trust, and I promised, saying: ‘Unless I lead him back, I will be guilty of a sin against my father for all time.
    33: And so I, your servant, will remain in place of the boy, in ministry to my lord, and then let the boy go up with his brothers
    34: For I cannot return to my father without the boy, lest I appear as a witness to the calamity that will oppress my father.

End of day 11.