Day 304:

Reading John, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: Before the feast day of the Passover, Jesus knew that the hour was approaching when he would pass from this world to the Father. And since he had always loved his own who were in the world, he loved them unto the end
    2: And when the meal had taken place, when the devil had now put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray him
    3: knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he came from God and was going to God
    4: he rose up from the meal, and he set aside his vestments, and when he had received a towel, he wrapped it around himself
    5: Next he put water into a shallow bowl, and he began to wash the feet of the disciples and to wipe them with the towel with which he was wrapped
    6: And then he came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to him, “Lord, would you wash my feet?
    7: Jesus responded and said to him: “What I am doing, you do not now understand. But you shall understand it afterward.
    8: Peter said to him, “You shall never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you will have no place with me.
    9: Simon Peter said to him, “Then Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head!
    10: Jesus said to him: “He who is washed need only wash his feet, and then he will be entirely clean. And you are clean, but not all.
    11: For he knew which one would betray him. For this reason, he said, “You are not all clean.
    12: And so, after he washed their feet and received his vestments, when he had sat down at table again, he said to them: “Do you know what I have done for you
    13: You call me Teacher and Lord, and you speak well: for so I am
    14: Therefore, if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash the feet of one another
    15: For I have given you an example, so that just as I have done for you, so also should you do
    16: Amen, amen, I say to you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, and the apostle is not greater than he who sent him
    17: If you understand this, you shall be blessed if you will do it
    18: I am not speaking about all of you. I know those whom I have chosen. But this is so that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with me shall lift up his heel against me.
    19: And I tell you this now, before it happens, so that when it has happened, you may believe that I am
    20: Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever receives anyone whom I send, receives me. And whoever receives me, receives him who sent me.
    21: When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit. And he bore witness by saying: “Amen, amen, I say to you, that one among you shall betray me.
    22: Therefore, the disciples looked around at one another, uncertain about whom he spoke
    23: And leaning against the bosom of Jesus was one of his disciples, the one whom Jesus loved
    24: Therefore, Simon Peter motioned to this one and said to him, “Who is it that he is speaking about?
    25: And so, leaning against the chest of Jesus, he said to him, “Lord, who is it?
    26: Jesus responded, “It is he to whom I shall extend the dipped bread.” And when he had dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon
    27: And after the morsel, Satan entered into him. And Jesus said to him, “What you are going to do, do quickly.
    28: Now none of those sitting at table knew why he had said this to him
    29: For some were thinking that, because Judas held the purse, that Jesus had told him, “Buy those things which are needed by us for the feast day,” or that he might give something to the needy
    30: Therefore, having accepted the morsel, he went out immediately. And it was night
    31: Then, when he had gone out, Jesus said: “Now the Son of man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him
    32: If God has been glorified in him, then God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him without delay
    33: Little sons, for a brief while, I am with you. You shall seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, you are not able to go,’ so also I say to you now
    34: I give you a new commandment: Love one another. Just as I have loved you, so also must you love one another
    35: By this, all shall recognize that you are my disciples: if you will have love for one another.
    36: Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus responded: “Where I am going, you are not able to follow me now. But you shall follow afterward.
    37: Peter said to him: “Why am I unable to follow you now? I will lay down my life for you!
    38: Jesus answered him: “You will lay down your life for me? Amen, amen, I say to you, the rooster will not crow, until you deny me three times.

  Chapter 14.

    1: “Do not let your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe in me also
    2: In my Father’s house, there are many dwelling places. If there were not, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you
    3: And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will return again, and then I will take you to myself, so that where I am, you also may be
    4: And you know where I am going. And you know the way.
    5: Thomas said to him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going, so how can we know the way?
    6: Jesus said to him: “I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father, except through me
    7: If you had known me, certainly you would also have known my Father. And from now on, you shall know him, and you have seen him.
    8: Philip said to him, “Lord, reveal the Father to us, and it is enough for us.
    9: Jesus said to him: “Have I been with you for so long, and you have not known me? Philip, whoever sees me, also sees the Father. How can you say, ‘Reveal the Father to us?
    10: Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I am speaking to you, I do not speak from myself. But the Father abiding in me, he does these works
    11: Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me
    12: Or else, believe because of these same works. Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever believes in me shall also do the works that I do. And greater things than these shall he do, for I go to the Father
    13: And whatever you shall ask the Father in my name, that I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son
    14: If you shall ask anything of me in my name, that I will do
    15: If you love me, keep my commandments
    16: And I will ask the Father, and he will give another Advocate to you, so that he may abide with you for eternity
    17: the Spirit of Truth, whom the world is not able to accept, because it neither perceives him nor knows him. But you shall know him. For he will remain with you, and he will be in you
    18: I will not leave you orphans. I will return to you
    19: Yet a little while and the world will not see me any longer. But you will see me. For I live, and you shall live
    20: In that day, you shall know that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you
    21: Whoever holds to my commandments and keeps them: it is he who loves me. And whoever loves me shall be loved by my Father. And I will love him, and I will manifest myself to him.
    22: Judas, not the Iscariot, said to him: “Lord, how does it happen that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world?
    23: Jesus responded and said to him: “If anyone loves me, he shall keep my word. And my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and we will make our dwelling place with him
    24: Whoever does not love me, does not keep not my words. And the word that you have heard is not of me, but it is of the Father who sent me
    25: These things I have spoken to you, while abiding with you
    26: But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will suggest to you everything whatsoever that I have said to you
    27: Peace I leave for you; my Peace I give to you. Not in the way that the world gives, do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, and let it not fear
    28: You have heard that I said to you: I am going away, and I am returning to you. If you loved me, certainly you would be gladdened, because I am going to the Father. For the Father is greater than I
    29: And now I have told you this, before it happens, so that, when it will happen, you may believe
    30: I will not now speak at length with you. For the prince of this world is coming, but he does not have anything in me
    31: Yet this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and that I am acting according to the commandment that the Father has given to me. Rise up, let us go from here.

  Chapter 15.

    1: “I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser
    2: Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he will take away. And each one that does bear fruit, he will cleanse, so that it may bring forth more fruit
    3: You are clean now, because of the word that I have spoken to you
    4: Abide in me, and I in you. Just as the branch is not able to bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, so also are you unable, unless you abide in me
    5: I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit. For without me, you are able to do nothing
    6: If anyone does not abide in me, he will be cast away, like a branch, and he will wither, and they will gather him and cast him into the fire, and he burns
    7: If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, then you may ask for whatever you will, and it shall be done for you
    8: In this, my Father is glorified: that you should bring forth very much fruit and become my disciples
    9: As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Abide in my love
    10: If you keep my precepts, you shall abide in my love, just as I also have kept my Father’s precepts and I abide in his love
    11: These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy may be in you, and your joy may be fulfilled
    12: This is my precept: that you love one another, just as I have loved you
    13: No one has a greater love than this: that he lay down his life for his friends
    14: You are my friends, if you do what I instruct you
    15: I will no longer call you servants, for the servant does not know what his Lord is doing. But I have called you friends, because everything whatsoever that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you
    16: You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. And I have appointed you, so that you may go forth and bear fruit, and so that your fruit may last. Then whatever you have asked of the Father in my name, he shall give to you
    17: This I command you: that you love one another
    18: If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before you
    19: If you had been of the world, the world would love what is its own. Yet truly, you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world; because of this, the world hates you
    20: Remember my saying that I told you: The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also. If they have kept my word, they will keep yours also
    21: But all these things they will do to you because of my name, for they do not know him who sent me
    22: If I had not come and had not spoken to them, they would not have sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin
    23: Whoever hates me, hates my Father also
    24: If I had not accomplished among them works that no other person has accomplished, they would not have sin. But now they have both seen me, and they have hated me and my Father
    25: But this is so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law: ‘For they hated me without cause.
    26: But when the Advocate has arrived, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, he will offer testimony about me
    27: And you shall offer testimony, because you are with me from the beginning.

  Chapter 16.

    1: “These things I have spoken to you, so that you would not stumble
    2: They will put you out of the synagogues. But the hour is coming when everyone who puts you to death will consider that he is offering an excellent service to God
    3: And they will do these things to you because they have not known the Father, nor me
    4: But these things I have spoken to you, so that, when the hour for these things will have arrived, you may remember that I told you
    5: But I did not tell you these things from the beginning, because I was with you. And now I am going to him who sent me. And no one among you has asked me, ‘Where are you going?
    6: But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart
    7: But I tell you the truth: it is expedient for you that I am going. For if I do not go, the Advocate will not come to you. But when I will have gone away, I will send him to you
    8: And when he has arrived, he will argue against the world, about sin and about justice and about judgment
    9: about sin, indeed, because they have not believed in me
    10: about justice, truly, because I am going to the Father, and you will not see me any longer
    11: about judgment, then, because the prince of this world has already been judged
    12: I still have many things to say to you, but you are not able to bear them now
    13: But when the Spirit of truth has arrived, he will teach the whole truth to you. For he will not be speaking from himself. Instead, whatever he will hear, he will speak. And he will announce to you the things that are to come
    14: He shall glorify me. For he will receive from what is mine, and he will announce it to you
    15: All things whatsoever that the Father has are mine. For this reason, I said that he will receive from what is mine and that he will announce it to you
    16: A little while, and then you will not see me. And again a little while, and you will see me. For I am going to the Father.
    17: Then some of his disciples said to one another: “What is this, that he is saying to us: ‘A little while, and you will not see me,’ and ‘Again a little while, and you will see me,’ and, ‘For I am going to the Father?’ 
    18: And they said: “What is this, that he is saying, ‘A little while?’ We do not understand what he is saying.
    19: But Jesus realized that they wanted to question him, and so he said to them: “Are you inquiring among yourselves about this, that I said: ‘A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me?
    20: Amen, amen, I say to you, that you shall mourn and weep, but the world will rejoice. And you shall be greatly saddened, yet your sorrow shall be turned into joy
    21: A woman, when she is giving birth, has sorrow, because her hour has arrived. But when she has given birth to the child, then she no longer remembers the difficulties, because of the joy: for a man has been born into the world
    22: Therefore, you also, indeed, have sorrow now. But I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice. And no one will take away your joy from you
    23: And, in that day, you will not petition me for anything. Amen, amen, I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in my name, he will give it to you
    24: Until now, you have not requested anything in my name. Ask, and you shall receive, so that your joy may be full
    25: I have spoken these things to you in proverbs. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in proverbs; instead, I will announce to you plainly from the Father
    26: In that day, you shall ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father for you
    27: For the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and because you have believed that I went forth from God
    28: I went forth from the Father, and I have come into the world. Next I am leaving the world, and I am going to the Father.
    29: His disciples said to him: “Behold, now you are speaking plainly and not reciting a proverb
    30: Now we know that you know all things, and that you have no need for anyone to question you. By this, we believe that you went forth from God.
    31: Jesus answered them: “Do you believe now
    32: Behold, the hour is coming, and it has now arrived, when you will be scattered, each one on his own, and you will leave me behind, alone. And yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me
    33: These things I have spoken to you, so that you may have peace in me. In the world, you will have difficulties. But have confidence: I have overcome the world.

End of day 304.