Day 8:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: And so Jacob, setting out, arrived in the eastern land
    2: And he saw a well in a field, and also three flocks of sheep reclining near it. For the animals were watered from it, and its mouth was closed with a great stone
    3: And the custom was, when all the sheep were gathered together, to roll away the stone. And when the flocks had been refreshed, they placed it over the mouth of the well again
    4: And he said to the shepherds, “Brothers, where are you from?” And they answered. “From Haran.
    5: And questioning them, he said, “Do you know Laban, the son of Nahor?” They said, “We know him.
    6: He said, “Is he well?” “He is very well,” they said. “And behold, his daughter Rachel approaches with his flock.
    7: And Jacob said, “There is still much daylight remaining, and it is not time to return the flocks to the sheepfold. Give the sheep to drink first, and then lead them back to pasture.
    8: They responded, “We cannot, until all the animals are gathered together and we remove the stone from the mouth of the well, so that we may water the flocks.
    9: They were still speaking, and behold, Rachel arrived with her father’s sheep; for she pastured the flock
    10: When Jacob had seen her, and he realized that she was his maternal first cousin, and that these were the sheep of his uncle Laban, he removed the stone which closed the well
    11: And having watered the flock, he kissed her. And lifting up his voice, he wept
    12: And he revealed to her that he was a brother of her father, and the son of Rebekah. And so, hurrying, she announced it to her father
    13: And when he had heard that Jacob, his sister’s son, had arrived, he ran to meet him. And embracing him, and kissing him heartily, he brought him into his house. But when he had heard the reasons for his journey
    14: he responded, “You are my bone and my flesh.” And after the days of one month were completed
    15: he said to him: “Though you are my brother, will you serve me for nothing? Tell me what wages you would accept.
    16: In truth, he had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah; and truly the younger was called Rachel
    17: But while Leah was bleary-eyed, Rachel had an elegant appearance and was attractive to behold
    18: And Jacob, loving her, said, “I will serve you for seven years, for your younger daughter Rachel.
    19: Laban responded, “It is better that I give her to you than to another man; remain with me.
    20: Therefore, Jacob served for seven years for Rachel. And these seemed like only a few days, because of the greatness of love
    21: And he said to Laban, “Give my wife to me. For now the time has been fulfilled, so that I may go in to her.
    22: And he, having called a great crowd of his friends to the feast, agreed to the marriage
    23: And at night, he brought in his daughter Leah to him
    24: giving his daughter a handmaid named Zilpah. After Jacob had gone in to her, according to custom, when morning had arrived, he saw Leah
    25: And he said to his father-in-law, “What is it that you intended to do? Did I not serve you for Rachel? Why have you deceived me?
    26: Laban responded, “It is not the practice in this place to give the younger in marriage first
    27: Complete a week of days with this mating. And then I will give this one to you also, for the service that you will provide to me for another seven years.
    28: He agreed to his pleading. And after the week had passed, he took Rachel as a wife
    29: To her, the father had given Bilhah as her servant
    30: And, having at last obtained the marriage he desired, he preferred the love of the latter before the former, and he served with him another seven years
    31: But the Lord, seeing that he despised Leah, opened her womb, but her sister remained barren
    32: Having conceived, she gave birth to a son, and she called his name Reuben, saying: “The Lord saw my humiliation; now my husband will love me.
    33: And again she conceived and bore a son, and she said, “Because the Lord heard that I was treated with contempt, he has also given this one to me.” And she called his name Simeon
    34: And she conceived a third time, and she gave birth to another son, and she said: “Now likewise my husband will unite with me, because I have borne him three sons.” And because of this, she called his name Levi
    35: A fourth time she conceived and bore a son, and she said, “Only now will I confess to the Lord.” And for this reason, she called him Judah. And she ceased from child-bearing

  Chapter 30.

    1: Then Rachel, discerning that she was infertile, envied her sister, and so she said to her husband, “Give me children, otherwise I will die.
    2: Jacob, being angry, responded to her, “Am I in the place of God, who has deprived you of the fruit of your womb?
    3: But she said: “I have a handmaid Bilhah. Go in to her, so that she may give birth upon my knees, and I may have sons by her.
    4: And she gave him Bilhah in marriage
    5: And when her husband had gone in to her, she conceived and bore a son
    6: And Rachel said, “The Lord has judged for me, and he has heeded my voice, giving me a son.” And because of this, she called his name Dan
    7: And conceiving again, Bilhah bore another
    8: about whom Rachel said, “God has compared me with my sister, and I have prevailed.” And she called him Naphtali
    9: Leah, perceiving that she had desisted from child-bearing, delivered Zilpah, her handmaid, to her husband
    10: And she, after having borne a son with difficulty
    11: said: “Happiness!” And for this reason, she called his name Gad
    12: Likewise, Zilpah bore another
    13: And Leah said, “This one is for my happiness. Indeed, women will call me blessed.” Because of this, she called him Asher
    14: Then Reuben, going out into the field at the time of the wheat harvest, found mandrakes. These he brought to his mother Leah. And Rachel said, “Give me a portion of your son’s mandrakes.
    15: She responded, “Does it seem like such a small matter to you, that you have usurped from me my husband, unless you will also take my son’s mandrakes?” Rachel said, “He will sleep with you this night because of your son’s mandrakes.
    16: And when Jacob returned from the field in the evening, Leah went out to meet him, and she said, “You will enter to me, because I have hired you for the reward of my son’s mandrakes.” And he slept with her that night
    17: And God heard her prayers. And she conceived and bore a fifth son
    18: And she said, “God has given a reward to me, because I gave my handmaid to my husband.” And she called his name Issachar
    19: Conceiving again, Leah bore a sixth son
    20: And she said: “God has endowed me with a good dowry. And now, at this turn, my husband will be with me, because I have conceived six sons for him.” And therefore she called his name Zebulun
    21: After him, she bore a daughter, named Dinah
    22: The Lord, likewise remembering Rachel, heeded her and opened her womb
    23: And she conceived and bore a son, saying, “God has taken away my reproach.
    24: And she called his name Joseph, saying, “The Lord has added to me another son.
    25: But when Joseph was born, Jacob said to his father-in-law: “Release me, so that I may return to my native country and to my land
    26: Give me my wives, and my children, for whom I have served you, so that I may depart. You know the servitude with which I have served you.
    27: Laban said to him: “May I find grace in your sight. I have learned by experience that God has blessed me because of you
    28: Choose your wages, which I will give you.
    29: But he responded: “You know how I have served you, and how great your possession became in my hands
    30: You had little before I came to you, and now you have achieved riches. And the Lord has blessed you since my arrival. It is just, therefore, that at sometime I also should provide for my own house.
    31: And Laban said, “What shall I give to you?” But he said, “I want nothing. But if you will do what I ask, I will feed and guard your sheep again
    32: Go around through all your flocks and separate all the sheep of variegated or spotted fleece; and whatever will be darkened or blemished or variegated, as much among the sheep as among the goats, will be my wages
    33: And my justice will answer on my behalf tomorrow, when the time of settlement arrives before you. And all that is not variegated or blemished or darkened, as much among the sheep as among the goats, these will prove me to be a thief.
    34: And Laban said, “I hold favor for this request.
    35: And on that day he separated the she-goats, and the sheep, and the he-goats, and the rams with variegations or with blemishes. But every one of the flock which was of one color, that is, of white or of black fleece, he delivered into the hands of his sons
    36: And he established a distance of three days journey between himself and his son-in-law, who pastured the remainder of his flock
    37: Then Jacob, taking green branches of poplar, and almond, and sycamore trees, debarked them in part. And when the bark was pulled off, in the parts that were stripped, there appeared whiteness, yet the parts that were left whole, remained green. And so, in this way the color was made variegated
    38: And he placed them in the troughs, where the water was poured out, so that when the flocks had arrived to drink, they would have the branches before their eyes, and in their sight they might conceive
    39: And it happened that, in the very heat of joining together, the sheep looked upon the branches, and they bore the blemished and the variegated, those speckled with diverse color
    40: And Jacob divided the flock, and he set the branches in the troughs before the eyes of the rams. Now whatever was white or black belonged to Laban, but, in truth, the others belonged to Jacob, for the flocks were dispersed among one another
    41: Therefore, when the first to arrive were climbing on the ewes, Jacob placed the branches in the troughs of water before the eyes of the rams and the sheep, so that they might conceive while they were gazing upon them
    42: Yet when the late arrivals and the last to conceive were let in, he did not place these. And so those that arrived late became Laban’s, and those that arrived first became Jacob’s
    43: And the man was enriched beyond limit, and he had many flocks, women servants and men servants, camels and donkeys

  Chapter 31.

    1: But afterwards, he heard the words of the sons of Laban, saying, “Jacob has taken all that was our father’s, and being enlarged by his ability, he has become famous.
    2: Likewise, he observed that Laban’s face was not the same toward him as it was yesterday and the day before
    3: Most importantly, the Lord was saying to him, “Return to the land of your fathers and to your generation, and I will be with you.
    4: He sent and called for Rachel and Leah, in the field where he pastured the flocks
    5: and he said to them: “I see that your father’s face is not the same toward me as it was yesterday and the day before. But the God of my father has been with me
    6: And you know that I have served your father with all my strength
    7: Even so, your father has circumvented me, and he has changed my wages ten times. And yet God has not permitted him to harm me
    8: Whenever he said, ‘The speckled will be your wages,’ all the sheep gave birth to speckled newborns. Yet truly, when he said the contrary, ‘You will take whatever is white for your wages,’ all the flocks gave birth to white ones
    9: And it is God who has taken your father’s substance and given it to me
    10: For after the time had arrived for the ewes to conceive, I lifted up my eyes, and I saw in my sleep that the males climbing on the females were of variegated, and spotted, and diverse colors
    11: And the Angel of God said to me in my sleep, ‘Jacob.’ And I responded, ‘Here I am.
    12: And he said: ‘Lift up your eyes, and see that all the males climbing on the females are variegated, spotted, and also speckled. For I have seen all that Laban has done to you
    13: I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed the stone and made a vow to me. Now therefore arise, and depart from this land, returning to the land of your nativity.’ 
    14: And Rachel and Leah responded: “Have we anything left behind among the resources and inheritance of our father’s house
    15: Has he not considered us as foreigners, and sold us, and consumed our price
    16: But God has taken our father’s riches and handed these to us and to our sons. Therefore, do all that God has instructed you.
    17: And so Jacob rose up, and having placed the children and his wives upon camels, he went forth
    18: And he took all his substance and flocks, and whatever he had acquired in Mesopotamia, and he journeyed to his father Isaac, in the land of Canaan
    19: At that time, Laban had gone to shear the sheep, and so Rachel stole her father’s idols
    20: And Jacob was not willing to confess to his father-in-law that he was fleeing
    21: And when he had gone away with all such things that were justly his, and, having crossed the river, was continuing on toward Mount Gilead
    22: it was reported to Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled
    23: And taking his brothers with him, he pursued him for seven days. And he overtook him at Mount Gilead
    24: And he saw in a dream, God saying to him, “Beware that you not speak anything harsh against Jacob.
    25: And now Jacob had pitched his tent at the mountain. And when he, with his brothers, had overtaken him, he set his tent at the same place at Mount Gilead
    26: And he said to Jacob: “Why have you acted this way, departing from me in secret, with my daughters like captives of the sword
    27: Why would you want to flee without my knowledge and without telling me, though I might have led you forward with gladness, and songs, and timbrels, and lyres
    28: You have not permitted me to kiss my sons and daughters. You have acted foolishly. And now, indeed
    29: my hand has power to repay you with harm. But the God of your father said to me yesterday, ‘Beware that you not speak anything stern against Jacob.
    30: It may be that you desired to go to your own, and that you longed for the house of your father. But why have you stolen my gods?
    31: Jacob answered: “I set out, unknown to you, because I feared that you might take away your daughters by violence
    32: But, since you accuse me of theft, with whomever you will find your gods, let him be slain in the sight of our brothers. Search; anything of yours that you will find with me, take it away.” Now when he said this, he did not know that Rachel had stolen the idols
    33: And so Laban, entering the tent of Jacob, and of Leah, and of both the handmaids, did not find them. And when he had entered the tent of Rachel
    34: she quickly hid the idols under the camel’s bedding, and she sat upon them. And when he had searched the entire tent and found nothing
    35: she said: “Do not be angry, my lord, that I am unable to rise up in your sight, because it has now happened to me according to the custom of women.” So his careful search was thwarted
    36: And Jacob, being inflated, said with contention: “For which fault of mine, or for what sin of mine, have you become so enraged against m
    37: and searched all the items of my house? What have you found from all the substance of your house? Place it here before my brothers, and your brothers, and let them judge between me and you
    38: For what reason have I been with you for twenty years? Your ewes and she-goats were not barren; the rams of your flocks I did not consume
    39: Neither did I reveal to you what was seized by the wild beast. I replaced all that was damaged. Whatever was lost by theft, you collected it from me
    40: Day and night, I was burned by heat and by frost, and sleep fled from my eyes
    41: And in this way, for twenty years, I have served you in your house: fourteen for your daughters, and six for your flocks. You have also changed my wages ten times
    42: If the God of my father Abraham and the fear of Isaac had not been close to me, perhaps by now you would have sent me away naked. But God looked kindly on my affliction and the labor of my hands, and he rebuked you yesterday.
    43: Laban answered him: “My daughters and sons, and your flocks, and all that you discern are mine. What can I do to my sons and grandchildren
    44: Come, therefore, let us enter into a pact, so that it may be a testimony between me and you.
    45: And so Jacob took a stone, and he set it up as a memorial
    46: And he said to his brothers, “Bring stones.” And they, gathering together stones, made a tomb, and they ate upon it
    47: And Laban called it, ‘Tomb of Witness,’ and Jacob, ‘Pile of Testimony;’ each of them according to the fitness of his own language
    48: And Laban said: “This tomb will be a witness between me and you this day.” (And for this reason, its name has been called Gilead, that is, ‘Tomb of Witness.’
    49: “May the Lord consider and judge between us, when we will have withdrawn from one another
    50: If you afflict my daughters, and if you bring in other wives over them, no one is a witness of our words except God, who understands beforehand.
    51: And again he said to Jacob. “Lo, this tomb and the stone that I have set up between me and you
    52: will be a witness. This tomb,” I say, “and the stone, they are for testimony, in case either I cross beyond it going toward you, or you cross beyond it thinking to harm me
    53: May the God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us.” Therefore, Jacob swore by the fear of his father Isaac
    54: And after he had immolated sacrifices on the mountain, he called his brothers to eat bread. And when they had eaten, they lodged there
    55: In truth, Laban rose up in the night, and he kissed his sons and daughters, and he blessed them. And he returned to his place

  Chapter 32.

    1: Likewise, Jacob continued on the journey that he had begun. And the Angels of God met him
    2: When he had seen them, he said, “These are the Encampments of God.” And he called the name of that place Mahanaim, that is, ‘Encampments.
    3: Then he also sent messengers before him to his brother Esau, in the land of Seir, in the region of Edom
    4: And he instructed them, saying: “You shall speak in this way to my lord Esau: ‘Your brother Jacob says these things: “I have sojourned with Laban, and I have been with him until the present day
    5: I have oxen, and donkeys, and sheep, and men servants, and women servants. And now I send an ambassador to my lord, so that I may find favor in your sight.” ’ 
    6: And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, “We went to your brother Esau, and behold, he rushes to meet you with four hundred men.
    7: Jacob was very afraid. And in his terror, he divided the people who were with him, likewise the flocks, and the sheep, and the oxen, and the camels, into two companies
    8: saying: “If Esau goes to one company, and strikes it, the other company, which is left behind, will be saved.
    9: And Jacob said: “God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, O Lord who said to me: ‘Return to your land, and to the place of your nativity, and I will do well for you.
    10: I am less than any of your compassions and your truth, which you have fulfilled to your servant. With my staff I crossed over this Jordan. And now I go back with two companies
    11: Rescue me from the hand of my brother Esau, for I am very afraid of him, lest perhaps he may come and strike down the mother with the sons
    12: You did say that you would do well by me, and that you would expand my offspring like the sand of the sea, which, because of its multitude, cannot be numbered.
    13: And when he had slept there that night, he separated, from the things that he had, gifts for his brother Esau
    14: two hundred she-goats, twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams
    15: thirty milking camels with their young, forty cows, and twenty bulls, twenty she-donkeys, and ten of their young
    16: And he sent them by the hands of his servants, each flock separately, and he said to his servants: “Pass before me, and let there be a space between flock and flock.
    17: And he instructed the first, saying: “If you happen to meet my brother Esau, and he questions you: “Whose are you?” or, “Where are you going?” or, “Whose are these which follow you?
    18: you shall respond: “Your servant Jacob’s. He has sent them as a gift to my lord Esau. And he is also coming after us.
    19: Similarly, he gave orders to the second, and the third, and to all who followed the flocks, saying: “Speak these same words to Esau, when you find him
    20: And you will add: ‘Your servant Jacob himself also follows after us, for he said: “I will appease him with the gifts that go ahead, and after this, I will see him; perhaps he will be gracious to me.” ’ 
    21: And so the gifts went before him, but he himself lodged that night in the camp
    22: And when he had arisen early, he took his two wives, and the same number of handmaids, with his eleven sons, and he crossed over the ford of Jabbok
    23: And having delivered over all the things that belonged to him
    24: he remained alone. And behold, a man wrestled with him until morning
    25: And when he saw that he would not be able to overcome him, he touched the nerve of his thigh, and immediately it withered
    26: And he said to him, “Release me, for now the dawn ascends.” He responded, “I will not release you, unless you bless me.
    27: Therefore he said, “What is your name?” He answered, “Jacob.
    28: But he said, “Your name will not be called Jacob, but Israel; for if you have been strong against God, how much more will you prevail against men?
    29: Jacob questioned him, “Tell me, by what name are you called?” He responded, “Why do you ask my name?” And he blessed him in the same place
    30: And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, “I have seen God face to face, and my soul has been saved.
    31: And immediately the sun rose upon him, after he had crossed beyond Peniel. Yet in truth, he limped on his foot
    32: For this reason, the sons of Israel, even to the present day, do not eat the nerve that withered in Jacob’s thigh, because he touched the nerve of his thigh and it was obstructed

End of day 8.