Day 46:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: “If there is a case between persons, and they apply to the judges, they shall give the palm of justice to the one whom they perceive to be just, and they shall condemn of impiety the one who is impious
    2: But if they see that the one who has sinned is worthy of stripes, they shall prostrate him and cause him to be beaten before them. According to the measure of the sin, so shall the measure of the stripes be
    3: Even so, these shall not exceed the number of forty. Otherwise, your brother may depart, having been wounded shamefully before your eyes
    4: You shall not muzzle an ox as it is treading out your crops in the field
    5: When brothers are living together, and one of them dies without children, the wife of the deceased shall not marry another. Instead, his brother shall take her, and he shall raise up offspring for his brother
    6: And the first son from her, he shall call by his brother’s name, so that his name will not be abolished from Israel
    7: But if he is not willing to take his brother’s wife, who by law must go to him, the woman shall go to the gate of the city, and she shall call upon those greater by birth, and she shall say: ‘The brother of my husband is not willing to raise up his brother’s name in Israel; nor will he join with me.
    8: And immediately, they shall summon him to be sent, and they shall question him. If he responds, ‘I am not willing to accept her as a wife,
    9: then the woman shall approach him in the sight of the elders, and she shall remove his shoe from his foot, and she shall spit in his face, and she shall say: ‘So shall it be done to the man who was not willing to build up his brother’s house.
    10: And his name shall be called in Israel: The House of the Unshod
    11: If two men have a conflict between themselves, and one begins to do violence to the other, and if the other’s wife, wanting to rescue her husband from the hand of the stronger one, extends her hand and grasps him by his private parts
    12: then you shall cut off her hand. Neither shall you weep over her with any mercy
    13: You shall not have differing weights, greater and lesser, in your bag
    14: Neither shall there be in your house a greater and a lesser measure
    15: You shall have a just and a true weight, and your measure shall be equal and true, so that you may live for a long time upon the land, which the Lord your God will give to you
    16: For the Lord your God abominates him who does these things, and he loathes all injustice
    17: Remember what Amalek did to you, along the way, when you were departing from Egypt
    18: how he met you and cut down the stragglers of the troops, who were sitting down, exhausted, when you were consumed by hunger and hardship, and how he did not fear God
    19: Therefore, when the Lord your God will give you rest, and you will have subdued all the surrounding nations, in the land which he has promised to you, you shall delete his name from under heaven. Take care not to forget this.

  Chapter 26.

    1: “And when you will have entered into the land which the Lord your God will give to you to possess, and when you will have obtained it and are living within it
    2: you shall take the first of all your crops, and place them in a basket, and you shall travel to the place which the Lord your God will choose, so that his name may be invoked there
    3: And you shall approach the priest who will be in those days, and you shall say to him: ‘I profess this day, before the Lord your God, that I have entered into the land about which he swore to our fathers that he would give it to us.
    4: And the priest, taking up the basket from your hand, shall place it before the altar of the Lord your God
    5: And you shall say, in the sight of the Lord your God: ‘The Syrian pursued my father, who descended into Egypt, and he sojourned there in a very small number, and he increased into a great and strong nation and into an innumerable multitude
    6: And the Egyptians afflicted us, and they persecuted us, imposing upon us the most grievous burdens
    7: And we cried out to the Lord, the God of our fathers. He heard us, and he looked with favor upon our humiliation, and hardship, and distress
    8: And he led us away from Egypt, with a strong hand and an outstretched arm, with a mighty terror, with signs and wonders
    9: And he led us into this place, and he delivered to us the land flowing with milk and honey
    10: And because of this, I now offer the first fruits of the land which the Lord has given to me.’ And you shall leave them in the sight of the Lord your God, and you shall adore the Lord your God
    11: And you shall feast on all the good things which the Lord your God will give to you and to your house: you, and the Levite, and the new arrival who is with you
    12: When you will have completed the tithing of all your crops, in the third year of tithes, you shall give it to the Levite, and to the new arrival, and to the orphan, and to the widow, so that they may eat within your gates and be satisfied
    13: And you shall say, in the sight of the Lord your God: ‘I have taken what was sanctified from my house, and I have given it to the Levite, and to the new arrival, and to the orphan and the widow, just as you have commanded me. I have not transgressed your commandments, nor have I forgotten your precepts
    14: I have not eaten from these things in my grief, nor have I separated them due to any kind of uncleanness, nor have I expended any of these things in funerals. I have obeyed the voice of the Lord my God, and I have done all things just as you have instructed me
    15: Look with favor from your sanctuary and from your lofty habitation amid the heavens, and bless your people Israel and the land which you have given to us, just as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
    16: Today the Lord your God has instructed you to carry out these commandments and judgments, and to keep and fulfill them, with all your heart and with all your soul
    17: Today, you have chosen the Lord to be your God, so that you may walk in his ways, and keep his ceremonies and commandments and judgments, and obey his command
    18: Today, the Lord has chosen you, so that you may be his particular people, just as he has spoken to you, and so that you may keep all his precepts
    19: and so that he may cause you to be more exalted than all the nations which he has created, for the sake of his own praise and name and glory, in order that you may be a holy people for the Lord your God, just as he has spoken.

  Chapter 27.

    1: Then Moses and the elders of Israel instructed the people, saying: “Keep each commandment that I instruct to you this day
    2: And when you have crossed over the Jordan, into the land which the Lord your God will give to you, you shall erect immense stones, and you shall coat them with plaster
    3: so that you may be able to write upon them all the words of this law, when you have crossed the Jordan so as to enter into the land which the Lord your God will give to you, a land flowing with milk and honey, just as he swore to your fathers
    4: Therefore, when you have crossed over the Jordan, erect the stones, just as I instruct you to do this day, on Mount Ebal. And you shall coat them with plaster
    5: and you shall build, in that place, an altar to the Lord your God out of stones which have not been touched by iron
    6: out of stones which have not been hewn or polished. And you shall offer holocausts on it to the Lord your God
    7: And you shall immolate peace victims. And you shall eat and feast in that place, in the sight of the Lord your God
    8: And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law, plainly and clearly.
    9: And Moses and the priests of Levitical stock said to all of Israel: “Attend and listen, O Israel! Today you have become the people of the Lord your God
    10: You shall listen to his voice, and you shall do the commandments and justices, which I am entrusting to you.
    11: And Moses instructed the people in that day, saying
    12: “These shall stand upon Mount Gerizim, as a blessing to the people, when you will have crossed the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin
    13: And in the opposite region, there shall stand upon Mount Ebal, as a curse: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali
    14: And the Levites shall pronounce and declare to all the men of Israel, with an exalted voice
    15: Cursed be the man who makes a graven or molten idol, an abomination to the Lord, a work of the hands of its maker, and who puts it in a secret place. And all the people shall respond by saying: Amen
    16: Cursed be he who does not honor his father and mother. And all the people shall say: Amen
    17: Cursed be he who removes his neighbor’s landmarks. And all the people shall say: Amen
    18: Cursed be he who causes the blind to go astray on a journey. And all the people shall say: Amen
    19: Cursed be he who subverts the judgment of the new arrival, the orphan, or the widow. And all the people shall say: Amen
    20: Cursed be he who lies with his father’s wife, and so exposes the covering of his bed. And all the people shall say: Amen
    21: Cursed be he who lies with any beast. And all the people shall say: Amen
    22: Cursed be he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father, or of his mother. And all the people shall say: Amen
    23: Cursed be he who lies with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say: Amen
    24: Cursed be he who secretly strikes down his neighbor. And all the people shall say: Amen
    25: Cursed be he who accepts gifts in order to strike down the life of innocent blood. And all the people shall say: Amen
    26: Cursed be he who does not remain in the words of this law, and does not carry them out in deed. And all the people shall say: Amen.

  Chapter 28.

    1: “So then, if you will listen to the voice of the Lord your God, so as to keep and do all of his commandments, which I instruct to you this day, the Lord your God will cause you to be more exalted than all the nations which exist upon the earth
    2: And all these blessings shall come to you and take hold of you, but only if you listen to his precepts
    3: Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed in the field
    4: Blessed shall be the fruit of your loins, and the fruit of your land, and the fruit of your cattle, the droves of your herds, and the folds of your sheep
    5: Blessed shall be your barns, and blessed your storehouses
    6: Blessed shall you be entering and departing
    7: The Lord will grant that your enemies, who rise up against you, will fall down in your sight. They will come against you by one way, and they will flee from your face by seven ways
    8: The Lord will send forth a blessing upon your cellars, and upon all the works of your hands. And he will bless you in the land that you shall receive
    9: The Lord will raise you up as a holy people for himself, just as he swore to you, if you will keep the commandments of the Lord your God, and walk in his ways
    10: And all the peoples of the earth shall see that the name of the Lord has been invoked over you, and they shall fear you
    11: The Lord will cause you be abundant in every good thing: in the fruit of your womb, and in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit of your land, which the Lord swore to your fathers that he would give to you
    12: The Lord will open his excellent treasury, the heavens, so that it may distribute rain in due time. And he will bless all the works of your hands. And you shall lend to many nations, but you yourself will borrow nothing from anyone
    13: And the Lord will appoint you as the head, and not as the tail. And you shall be always above, and not beneath. But only if you will listen to the commandments of the Lord your God, which I entrust to you this day, and will keep and do them
    14: and will not turn aside from them, neither to the right, nor to the left, nor follow strange gods, nor worship them
    15: But if you are not willing to listen to the voice of the Lord your God, so as to keep and do all his commandments and ceremonies, which I instruct to you this day, all these curses shall come to you, and take hold of you
    16: Cursed shall you be in the city, cursed in the field
    17: Cursed shall be your barn, and cursed your storehouses
    18: Cursed shall be the fruit of your loins, and the fruit of your land, the herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep
    19: Cursed shall you be entering, and cursed departing
    20: The Lord will send famine and hunger upon you, and a rebuke upon all the works that you do, until he quickly crushes and perishes you, because of your very wicked innovations, by which you have forsaken me
    21: May the Lord join a pestilence to you, until he consumes you from the land, which you shall enter so as to possess
    22: May the Lord strike you with destitution, with fever and cold, with burning and heat, and with polluted air and rot, and may he pursue you until you perish
    23: May the heavens which are above you be of brass, and may the ground upon which you tread be of iron
    24: May the Lord give you dust instead of rain upon your land, and may ashes descend from heaven over you, until you have been wiped away
    25: May the Lord hand you over to fall before your enemies. May you go forth against them by one way, and flee by seven ways, and may you be scattered across all the kingdoms of the earth
    26: And may your carcass be food for all the flying things of the air and the wild beasts of the land, and may there be no one to drive them away
    27: May the Lord strike you with the ulcer of Egypt, and may he strike the part of your body, through which the dung goes out, with disease as well as itch, so much so that you are unable to be cured
    28: May the Lord strike you with frenzy and blindness and a madness of the mind
    29: And may you grope at midday, just as a blind man is accustomed to grope in darkness, and may your paths not be straight. And at all times may you suffer slander and be oppressed with violence, and may you have no one who may free you
    30: May you take a wife, though another sleeps with her. May you build a house, but not live within it. May you plant a vineyard, and not gather its vintage
    31: May your ox be immolated before you, though you do not eat from it. May your donkey be seized in your sight, and not restored to you. May your sheep be given to your enemies, and may there be no one who may help you
    32: May your sons and your daughters be handed over to another people, as your eyes watch and languish at the sight of them throughout the day, and may there be no strength in your hand
    33: May a people you do not know eat the fruits of your land and of all your labors. And may you continually suffer from slander and oppression every day
    34: And may you be stupefied at the terror of the things your eyes will see
    35: May the Lord strike you with a very grievous ulcer in the knees and in the legs, and may you be unable to attain health, from the sole of the foot to the top of the head
    36: May the Lord lead you and your king, whom you will have appointed over yourself, into a nation which you and your fathers have not known. And there you will serve foreign gods, of wood and of stone
    37: And you will become nothing but a proverb and a fable to all the peoples to whom the Lord will lead you
    38: You will sow much seed upon the ground, but you will harvest little. For the locusts will devour everything
    39: You will dig and plant a vineyard, but you will not drink the wine, nor gather anything at all from it. For it will be devastated by worms
    40: You will have olive trees in all your borders, but you will not be anointed with the oil. For the olives will fall off and perish
    41: You will conceive sons and daughters, and you will not enjoy them. For they will be led into captivity
    42: Rot will consume all the trees, as well as the fruits of your land
    43: The new arrival who lives with you in the land will ascend over you, and be higher. But you will descend, and be lower
    44: He will lend to you, and you will not lend to him. He will be as the head, and you will be as the tail
    45: And all these curses shall come to you, and shall pursue you, and shall take hold of you, until you pass away, because you would not listen to the voice of the Lord your God, and you would not serve his commandments and ceremonies, which he has instructed to you
    46: And there will be the signs and portents with you, and with your offspring, forever
    47: Because you did not serve the Lord your God, with gladness and a joyful heart, over the abundance of all things
    48: You will serve your enemy, whom the Lord will send to you, in hunger and thirst and nakedness, and in destitution of all things. And he will place an iron yoke upon your neck, until he has crushed you
    49: The Lord will lead over you a nation from far away, even from the furthest parts of the earth, like an eagle flying with great force, whose language you are not able to understand
    50: a very insolent nation, which will show no deference to elders, nor take pity on little ones
    51: And he will devour the fruit of your cattle, and the fruits of your land, until you have passed away, without leaving behind you wheat, or wine, or oil, or herds of oxen, or flocks of sheep: until he utterly destroys you
    52: And he will crush you in all your cities. And your strong and lofty walls, in which you trusted, will be destroyed throughout all your land. You will be besieged within your gates throughout all your land, which the Lord your God will give to you
    53: And you will eat the fruit of your womb, and the flesh of your sons and of your daughters, which the Lord your God will give to you, due to the anguish and devastation with which your enemy will oppress you
    54: The man who is pampered and very self-indulgent among you will vie with his own brother, and with the wife who lies at his bosom
    55: lest he give to them from the flesh of his sons, which he will eat. For he has nothing else due to the siege and the destitution, with which your enemies will devastate you within all your gates
    56: The tender and pampered woman, who would not walk upon the soil, nor step firmly with her foot due to her very great softness and tenderness, will vie with her husband, who lies at her bosom, over the flesh of son and of daughter
    57: and over the filth of the afterbirth, which goes forth from between her thighs, and over the children who are born in the same hour. For they will eat them secretly, due to the scarcity of all things during the siege and the devastation, with which your enemy will oppress you within your gates
    58: If you will not keep and do all the words of this law, which have been written in this volume, and fear his glorious and terrible name, that is, the Lord your God
    59: then the Lord will increase your plagues, and the plagues of your offspring, plagues great and long-lasting, infirmities very grievous and continuous
    60: And he will turn back upon you all the afflictions of Egypt, which you fear, and these will cling to you
    61: In addition, the Lord will lead over you all the diseases and plagues that are not written in the volume of this law, until he crushes you
    62: And you will remain few in number, though you were before like the stars of heaven in multitude, because you would not listen to the voice of the Lord your God
    63: And just as before, when the Lord rejoiced over you, doing good for you and multiplying you, so shall he rejoice, scattering and overturning you, so as to take you away from the land, which you shall enter in order to possess
    64: The Lord will disperse you among all the peoples, from the heights of the earth to its furthest limits. And there you will serve foreign gods of wood and of stone, which you and your fathers did not know
    65: Similarly, you will not have tranquility, even within those nations, nor will there be any rest for the steps of your feet. For the Lord will give to you in that place a fearful heart, and failing eyes, and a life consumed with grieving
    66: And your life will be as if it were hanging before you. You will be afraid night and day, and you will not have confidence in your own life
    67: In the morning you will say, ‘Who will grant evening to me?’ and at evening, ‘Who will grant morning to me?’ because of the dread of your heart, with which you will be terrified, and because of those things that you will see with your eyes
    68: The Lord will lead you back into Egypt with a fleet of ships, along the way, about which he said to you that you would not see it again. In that place, you will be put up for sale as men and women servants to your enemies, but there will be no one willing to buy you.

End of day 46.