Day 194:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['8', '9', '10', '11']:

  Chapter 8.

    1: You should not quarrel with a powerful man, lest perhaps you may fall into his hands
    2: You should not contend with a wealthy man, lest perhaps he may bring an action against you
    3: For gold and silver have destroyed many, and have reached and corrupted even the hearts of kings
    4: You should not quarrel with a man who is full of words, for you should not cast wood upon his fire
    5: You should not confide in an ignorant man, lest he speak evil about your family
    6: You should not despise a man who turns himself away from sin, nor reproach him with it. Remember that we are all subject to correction
    7: You should not spurn a man in his old age. For we are all subject to growing old
    8: Do not be willing to rejoice at the death of your enemy, knowing that we all die, and that we do not want others to rejoice over us
    9: You should not despise the discourse of those who are old and wise; instead, ponder their proverbs
    10: For from them, you will learn wisdom and intelligent doctrine, so as to serve great men without blame
    11: Do not allow the discourse of your elders to pass you by. For they have learned from their fathers
    12: And from them, you will learn understanding, and you will learn what response to give in a time of necessity
    13: You should not kindle the coals of sinners by arguing with them. For you might be scorched by the flame from the fire of their sins
    14: You should not stand against the face of a contemptuous person, otherwise he may sit down as if waiting in ambush against your words
    15: You should not lend to a man who is stronger than you. But if you do lend, consider it lost
    16: You should not promise beyond your ability. But if you do promise, consider how to fulfill it
    17: You should not judge against a judge. For he judges according to what is just
    18: You should not go forth on the way with an audacious man, lest perhaps he may burden you with his evils. For he goes forth according to his own will, and you will perish with him in his folly
    19: You should not start a conflict with an angry man, and you should not go into the desert with an audacious man. For shedding blood is nothing to him, and in a place where there is no help for you, he will overthrow you
    20: You should not hold counsel with the foolish. For they are not able to love anything except what pleases them
    21: You should not take counsel in the sight of an outsider. For you do not know what he will do next
    22: You should not reveal your heart to every man, lest perhaps he may offer a false kindness to you, and then speak reproachfully about you

  Chapter 9.

    1: You should not be jealous of the wife of your bosom, lest she reveal, because of you, the malice of a wicked lesson
    2: You should not give authority over your soul to a woman, lest she obtain your strength, and then you would be confounded
    3: You should not look with favor on a woman with many desires, lest perhaps you may fall into her traps
    4: You should not be continually in need of entertainment, nor should you be persuaded by it, lest perhaps you may perish by its effectiveness
    5: You should not stare at a virgin, lest perhaps you may be scandalized by her beauty
    6: You should not give your soul, in any way, to fornicators, lest you destroy yourself and your inheritance
    7: Do not choose to look around in the streets of the city, nor should you wander along its thoroughfares
    8: Avert your face from an ornate woman, for you should not gaze upon strange beauty
    9: Many have perished because of the beauty of a woman; and by this, desire is kindled like a fire
    10: Every woman who is a fornicator will be trampled down, like the filth in the street
    11: Many, by admiring the beauty of the wife of another, have become reprobate. For familiarity with her flares up like a fire
    12: You should not sit down at all with another man’s wife, nor recline with her on a couch
    13: And you should not argue with her over wine, lest perhaps your heart may turn toward her, and by your emotion, you would be toppled into perdition
    14: You should not abandon an old friend. For a new one will not be similar to him
    15: A new friend is like new wine. It will grow old, and then you will enjoy drinking it
    16: You should not envy the glory and wealth of a sinner. For you do not know what may be his undoing in the future
    17: The injury of the unjust should not please you, knowing that, until they are in hell, the impious will not please
    18: Keep yourself far from a man having the power to kill, and then you will not have the fear of death suspended over you
    19: But if you do approach him, do nothing to offend, lest perhaps he may take away your life
    20: Know that this is a communion with death. For you would be entering the midst of snares, and walking upon the arms of the grieving
    21: According to your ability, be cautious of your neighbor, and treat him as the wise and prudent would
    22: Let just men be your companions, and let your glory be in the fear of God
    23: And let the thought of God be in your mind, and let all your discourse be on the precepts of the Most High
    24: Works will be praised for the hands of the artists, and a leader of the people will be praised for the wisdom of his words, yet truly, the word of the elders will be praised for its understanding
    25: A man full of words is a dread to his city, but one who speaks rashly will be hated for his word

  Chapter 10.

    1: A wise judge will judge his people, and the leadership of an understanding man will be steadfast
    2: As the judge of the people is, so also are his assistants. And whatever kind of man the ruler of a city is, of such a kind also are those who live in it
    3: A foolish king will be the ruin of his people. For cities will be inhabited through the understanding of those with power
    4: Power over the earth is in the hand of God, and, in due time, he will raise up a helpful leader over the earth
    5: The prosperity of a man is in the hand of God, and he will place his honor above the face of the scribe
    6: You should forget all injury done to you by your neighbor, and you should do nothing among the works of injury
    7: Arrogance is hateful in the sight of God and of men. And all iniquity among the nations is abominable
    8: A kingdom is transferred from one people to another because of injustices, and injuries, and contempt, and every kind of deceit
    9: But nothing is more wicked than a greedy man. Why should that which is earth and ashes be arrogant
    10: There is nothing more iniquitous than to love money. For such a one has sold even his own soul. For in his life, he casts aside his innermost being
    11: All power is of short life. A prolonged sickness is of grave concern to a physician
    12: A physician causes a sickness to be shortened. So also, a king is here today, and tomorrow he will die
    13: For when a man dies, he will inherit serpents, and wild beasts, and worms
    14: The beginning of the arrogance of man is apostasy from God
    15: For his heart has withdrawn from the One who made him. For arrogance is the beginning of all sin. Whoever holds to it, will be filled with evil words, and it will overthrow him in the end
    16: Because of this, the Lord has dishonored the gatherings of the evil, and he has destroyed them, even unto the end
    17: God has destroyed the seats of arrogant leaders, and he has caused the meek to be seated in their place
    18: The roots of arrogant nations, God has dried up, and the humble among these nations, he has planted
    19: The Lord has overthrown the lands of the Gentiles, and he has utterly destroyed them, even to their foundation
    20: He has dried up some of them, and he has utterly destroyed them, and he has caused their memory to depart from the earth
    21: God has abolished the memory of the arrogant, and he has left behind only the memory of those who are humble in mind
    22: Arrogance was not created for men, nor was an angry temperament created for the gender of women
    23: Those who fear God among the offspring of men will be honored. But those among the offspring who ignore the commandments of the Lord will be dishonored
    24: In the midst of his brothers, a ruler has honor. And those who fear the Lord will have honor in his eyes
    25: The fear of God is the glory of the wealthy, and of the honorable, and of the poor
    26: Do not choose to despise a just man who is poor, and do not choose to magnify a sinful man who is rich
    27: The great man, and the judge, and the powerful have honor. But no one is greater than he who fears God
    28: Those who are free will serve an understanding servant. And a prudent and disciplined man will not murmur at correction. But an ignorant man will not be honored
    29: Do not choose to extol yourself in doing your work, and do not be unproductive during the time of distress
    30: He who works, and so abounds in all things, is better than he who boasts, and so lacks bread
    31: Son, preserve your soul in meekness, and give it honor according to its merit
    32: Who will justify one who sins in his soul? And who will honor one who dishonors his soul
    33: The poor man is glorified by his discipline and fear. And there is a man who is honored because of his substance
    34: But if someone is glorified in poverty, how much more in substance? And whoever is glorified in substance, let him fear poverty

  Chapter 11.

    1: The wisdom of one who is humble will exalt his head, and will cause him to sit down in the midst of great men
    2: You should not praise a man for his beauty, and you should not despise a man for his appearances
    3: The bee is small among flying things, but its fruit holds the summit of sweetness
    4: You should not glory in clothing at any time, and you should not let yourself be extolled in the day of your honor. For the works of the Most High alone are wondrous; and glorious and hidden and unseen are his works
    5: Many tyrants have sat upon a throne, and one whom no one would admire has worn a diadem
    6: Many powerful men have been powerfully cast down, and the illustrious have been handed over into the hands of others
    7: Before you inquire, you should not place blame on anyone; and when you have inquired, reprove justly
    8: Before you listen, you should not respond a word; and you should not interrupt in the middle of a discourse
    9: You should not contend in a matter which does not concern you, and you should not sit in judgment together with sinners
    10: Son, you should not be involved in many matters. And if you become rich, you will not be free from transgression. For if you pursue, you will not apprehend; and if you run ahead, you will not escape
    11: There is an impious man who labors and hurries and grieves, but all the more will he be without abundance
    12: There is a debilitated man in need of recovery, who is lacking in strength and abundant in poverty
    13: Yet the eye of God has looked with favor upon him for his benefit, and he has lifted him up from his humiliation, and he has exalted his head. And many have wondered at him, and they have honored God
    14: Good things and misfortune, life and death, poverty and wealth, are from God
    15: Wisdom, and discipline, and knowledge of the law are with God. Love and the ways of good things are with him
    16: Error and darkness have been created by sinners. And those who exult in evil, grow old in evil
    17: The gift of God remains with the just man, and his advancement will have success unto eternity
    18: There is one who is enriched by spending sparingly, and this is the extent of his reward
    19: About this, he says: “I have found rest for myself, and now I alone will eat from my goods.
    20: But he does not know how much time will pass before death approaches, and then he must leave everything behind to others and die
    21: Stand fast in your covenant, and become familiar with it, and grow old in the work of your commandments
    22: You should not spend time in the works of sinners. Instead, trust in God and remain in your own place
    23: For it is easy, in the eyes of God, to make a pauper suddenly rich
    24: The blessing of God hurries to reward the just man, and in a fleeting hour his advancement bears fruit
    25: You should not say: “What do I need?” or, “What good will there be for me in this?
    26: You should not say: “I have enough for myself,” or, “What could be worse than this?
    27: In a day of good things, you should not be forgetful of misfortunes. And in a day of misfortunes, you should not be forgetful of good things
    28: For it is easy, in the sight of God, on the day of one’s passing, to repay each one according to his ways
    29: The affliction of an hour causes one to forget great delights, and in the end of a man is the uncovering of his works
    30: You should not praise any man before death. For a man is known by his children
    31: You should not bring every man into your house. For many are the snares of the deceitful
    32: For as a stomach with a bad smell vomits, and as a partridge is led into a cage, and like a deer led into a snare, so also is the heart of the arrogant. And it is like a bystander watching his neighbor fall
    33: For it lies in ambush, and then turns good into evil, and it will place the blame on the elect
    34: From one spark, a great fire grows; and from one deceitful man, much blood flows. But a very sinful man lies in ambush for blood
    35: Pay close attention to yourself before a harmful man, for he fabricates evils. Otherwise, he may lead over you a whispered reproach unceasingly
    36: Receive a stranger to yourself, and he will overthrow you with a whirlwind, and he will alienate you from what is your very own

End of day 194.