Day 292:

Reading Mark, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And they went across the strait of the sea into the region of the Gerasenes
    2: And as he was departing from the boat, he was immediately met, from among the tombs, by a man with an unclean spirit
    3: who had his dwelling place with the tombs; neither had anyone been able to bind him, even with chains
    4: For having been bound often with shackles and chains, he had broken the chains and smashed the shackles; and no one had been able to tame him
    5: And he was always, day and night, among the tombs, or in the mountains, crying out and cutting himself with stones
    6: And seeing Jesus from afar, he ran and adored him
    7: And crying out with a loud voice, he said: “What am I to you, Jesus, the Son of the Most High God? I beseech you by God, that you not torment me.
    8: For he said to him, “Depart from the man, you unclean spirit.
    9: And he questioned him: “What is your name?” And he said to him, “My name is Legion, for we are many.
    10: And he entreated him greatly, so that he would not expel him from the region
    11: And in that place, near the mountain, there was a great herd of swine, feeding
    12: And the spirits entreated him, saying: “Send us into the swine, so that we may enter into them.
    13: And Jesus promptly gave them permission. And the unclean spirits, departing, entered into the swine. And the herd of about two thousand rushed down with great force into the sea, and they were drowned in the sea
    14: Then those who pastured them fled, and they reported it in the city and in the countryside. And they all went out to see what was happening
    15: And they came to Jesus. And they saw the man who had been troubled by the demon, sitting, clothed and with a sane mind, and they were afraid
    16: And those who had seen it explained to them how he had dealt with the man who had the demon, and about the swine
    17: And they began to petition him, so that he would withdraw from their borders
    18: And as he was climbing into the boat, the man who had been troubled by the demons began to beg him, so that he might be with him
    19: And he did not permit him, but he said to him, “Go to your own people, in your own house, and announce to them how great are the things that Lord has done for you, and how he has taken pity on you.
    20: And he went away and began to preach in the Ten Cities, how great were the things that Jesus had done for him. And everyone wondered
    21: And when Jesus had crossed in the boat, over the strait again, a great crowd came together before him. And he was near the sea
    22: And one of the rulers of the synagogue, named Jairus, approached. And seeing him, he fell prostrate at his feet
    23: And he beseeched him greatly, saying: “For my daughter is near the end. Come and lay your hand on her, so that she may be healthy and may live.
    24: And he went with him. And a great crowd followed him, and they pressed upon him
    25: And there was a woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years
    26: And she had endured much from several physicians, and she had spent everything she owned with no benefit at all, but instead she became worse
    27: Then, when she had heard of Jesus, she approached through the crowd behind him, and she touched his garment
    28: For she said: “Because if I touch even his garment, I will be saved.
    29: And immediately, the source of her bleeding was dried up, and she sensed in her body that she had been healed from the wound
    30: And immediately Jesus, realizing within himself that power that had gone out from him, turning to the crowd, said, “Who touched my garments?
    31: And his disciples said to him, “You see that the crowd presses around you, and yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’ 
    32: And he looked around to see the woman who had done this
    33: Yet truly, the woman, in fear and trembling, knowing what had happened within her, went and fell prostrate before him, and she told him the whole truth
    34: And he said to her: “Daughter, your faith has saved you. Go in peace, and be healed from your wound.
    35: While he was still speaking, they arrived from the ruler of the synagogue, saying: “Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?
    36: But Jesus, having heard the word that was spoken, said to the ruler of the synagogue: “Do not be afraid. You need only believe.
    37: And he would not permit anyone to follow him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James
    38: And they went to the house of the ruler of the synagogue. And he saw a tumult, and weeping, and much wailing
    39: And entering, he said to them: “Why are you disturbed and weeping? The girl is not dead, but is asleep.
    40: And they derided him. Yet truly, having put them all out, he took the father and mother of the girl, and those who were with him, and he entered to where the girl was lying
    41: And taking the girl by the hand, he said to her, “Talitha koumi,” which means, “Little girl, (I say to you) arise
    42: And immediately the young girl rose up and walked. Now she was twelve years old. And they were suddenly struck with a great astonishment
    43: And he instructed them sternly, so that no one would know about it. And he told them to give her something to eat

  Chapter 6.

    1: And departing from there, he went away to his own country; and his disciples followed him
    2: And when the Sabbath arrived, he began to teach in the synagogue. And many, upon hearing him, were amazed at his doctrine, saying: “Where did this one get all these things?” and, “What is this wisdom, which has been given to him?” and, “Such powerful deeds, which are wrought by his hands!
    3: “Is this not the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joseph, and Jude, and Simon? Are not his sisters also here with us?” And they took great offense at him
    4: And Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, and in his own house, and among his own kindred.
    5: And he was not able to perform any miracles there, except that he cured a few of the infirm by laying his hands on them
    6: And he wondered, because of their unbelief, and he traveled around in the villages, teaching
    7: And he called the twelve. And he began to send them out in twos, and he gave them authority over unclean spirits
    8: And he instructed them not to take anything for the journey, except a staff: no traveling bag, no bread, and no money belt
    9: but to wear sandals, and not to wear two tunics
    10: And he said to them: “Whenever you have entered into a house, stay there until you depart from that place
    11: And whoever will neither receive you, nor listen to you, as you go away from there, shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them.
    12: And going out, they were preaching, so that people would repent
    13: And they cast out many demons, and they anointed many of the sick with oil and healed them
    14: And king Herod heard of it, (for his name had become well-known) and he said: “John the Baptist has risen again from the dead, and because of this, miracles are at work in him.
    15: But others were saying, “Because it is Elijah.” Still others were saying, “Because he is a prophet, like one of the prophets.
    16: When Herod had heard it, he said, “John whom I beheaded, the same has risen again from the dead.
    17: For Herod himself had sent to capture John, and had chained him in prison, because of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip; for he had married her
    18: For John was saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.
    19: Now Herodias was devising treachery against him; and she wanted to kill him, but she was unable
    20: For Herod was apprehensive of John, knowing him to be a just and holy man, and so he guarded him. And he heard that he was accomplishing many things, and so he listened to him willingly
    21: And when an opportune time had arrived, Herod held a feast on his birthday, with the leaders, and the tribunes, and the first rulers of Galilee
    22: And when the daughter of the same Herodias had entered, and danced, and pleased Herod, along with those who were at table with him, the king said to the girl, “Request from me whatever you want, and I will give it to you.
    23: And he swore to her, “Anything that you request, I will give to you, even up to half my kingdom.
    24: And when she had gone out, she said to her mother, “What shall I request?” But her mother said, “The head of John the Baptist.
    25: And immediately, when she had entered with haste to the king, she petitioned him, saying: “I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
    26: And the king was greatly saddened. But because of his oath, and because of those who were sitting with him at table, he was not willing to disappoint her
    27: So, having sent an executioner, he instructed that his head be brought on a platter
    28: And he beheaded him in prison, and he brought his head on a platter. And he gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it her mother
    29: When his disciples heard about it, they came and took his body, and they placed it in a tomb
    30: And the Apostles, returning to Jesus, reported to him everything that they had done and taught
    31: And he said to them, “Go out alone, into a deserted place, and rest for a little while.” For there were so many who were coming and going, that they did not even have time to eat
    32: And climbing into a boat, they went away to a deserted place alone
    33: And they saw them going away, and many knew about it. And together they ran by foot from all the cities, and they arrived before them
    34: And Jesus, going out, saw a great multitude. And he took pity on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to teach them many things
    35: And when many hours had now passed, his disciples drew near to him, saying: “This is a deserted place, and the hour is now late
    36: Send them away, so that by going out to nearby villages and towns, they might buy provisions for themselves to eat.
    37: And responding, he said to them, “Give them something to eat yourselves.” And they said to him, “Let us go out and buy bread for two hundred denarii, and then we will give them something to eat.
    38: And he said to them: “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” And when they had found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.
    39: And he instructed them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass
    40: And they sat down in divisions by hundreds and by fifties
    41: And having received the five loaves and the two fish, gazing up to heaven, he blessed and broke the bread, and he gave it to his disciples to set before them. And the two fish he divided among them all
    42: And they all ate and were satisfied
    43: And they brought together the remainder: twelve baskets full of fragments and of fish
    44: Now those who ate were five thousand men
    45: And without delay he urged his disciples to climb into the boat, so that they might precede him across the sea to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the people
    46: And when he had dismissed them, he went to the mountain to pray
    47: And when it was late, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he was alone on the land
    48: And seeing them struggling to row, (for the wind was against them,) and about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them, walking upon the sea. And he intended to pass by them
    49: But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they thought it was an apparition, and they cried out
    50: For they all saw him, and they were very disturbed. And immediately he spoke with them, and he said to them: “Be strengthened in faith. It is I. Do not be afraid.
    51: And he climbed into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. And they became even more astonished within themselves
    52: For they did not understand about the bread. For their heart had been blinded
    53: And when they had crossed over, they arrived in the land of Genesaret, and they reached the shore
    54: And when they had disembarked from the boat, the people immediately recognized him
    55: And running throughout that entire region, they began to carry on beds those who had maladies, to where they heard that he would be
    56: And in whichever place he entered, in towns or villages or cities, they placed the infirm in the main streets, and they pleaded with him that they might touch even the hem of his garment. And as many as touched him were made healthy

  Chapter 7.

    1: And the Pharisees and some of the scribes, arriving from Jerusalem, gathered together before him
    2: And when they had seen certain ones from his disciples eating bread with common hands, that is, with unwashed hands, they disparaged them
    3: For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, do not eat without repeatedly washing their hands, holding to the tradition of the elders
    4: And when returning from the market, unless they wash, they do not eat. And there are many other things which have been handed down to them to observe: the washings of cups, and pitchers, and bronze containers, and beds
    5: And so the Pharisees and the scribes questioned him: “Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but they eat bread with common hands?
    6: But in response, he said to them: “So well did Isaiah prophesy about you hypocrites, just as it has been written: ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me
    7: And in vain do they worship me, teaching the doctrines and precepts of men.
    8: For abandoning the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men, to the washing of pitchers and cups. And you do many other things similar to these.
    9: And he said to them: “You effectively nullify the precept of God, so that you may observe your own tradition
    10: For Moses said: ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever will have cursed father or mother, let him die a death.
    11: But you say, ‘If a man will have said to his father or mother: Korban, (which is a gift) whatever is from me will be to your benefit,
    12: then you do not release him to do anything for his father or mother
    13: rescinding the word of God through your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many other similar things in this way.
    14: And again, calling the crowd to him, he said to them: “Listen to me, all of you, and understand
    15: There is nothing from outside a man which, by entering into him, is able to defile him. But the things which proceed from a man, these are what pollute a man
    16: Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.
    17: And when he had entered into the house, away from the crowd, his disciples questioned him about the parable
    18: And he said to them: “So, are you also without prudence? Do you not understand that everything entering to a man from outside is not able to pollute him
    19: For it does not enter into his heart, but into the gut, and it exits into the sewer, purging all foods.
    20: “But,” he said “the things which go out from a man, these pollute a man
    21: For from within, from the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders
    22: thefts, avarice, wickedness, deceitfulness, homosexuality, an evil eye, blasphemy, self-exaltation, foolishness
    23: All these evils proceed from within and pollute a man.
    24: And rising up, he went from there to the area of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into a house, he intended no one to know about it, but he was not able to remain hidden
    25: For a woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit, as soon as she heard about him, entered and fell prostrate at his feet
    26: For the woman was a Gentile, by birth a Syro-Phoenician. And she petitioned him, so that he would cast the demon from her daughter
    27: And he said to her: “First allow the sons to have their fill. For it is not good to take away the bread of the sons and throw it to the dogs.
    28: But she responded by saying to him: “Certainly, Lord. Yet the young dogs also eat, under the table, from the crumbs of the children.
    29: And he said to her, “Because of this saying, go; the demon has gone out of your daughter.
    30: And when she had gone to her house, she found the girl lying on the bed; and the demon had gone away
    31: And again, departing from the borders of Tyre, he went by way of Sidon to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the area of the Ten Cities
    32: And they brought someone who was deaf and mute to him. And they begged him, so that he would lay his hand upon him
    33: And taking him away from the crowd, he put his fingers into his ears; and spitting, he touched his tongue
    34: And gazing up to heaven, he groaned and said to him: “Ephphatha,” which is, “Be opened.
    35: And immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke correctly
    36: And he instructed them not to tell anyone. But as much as he instructed them, so much more did they preach about it
    37: And so much more did they wonder, saying: “He has done all things well. He has caused both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak.

  Chapter 8.

    1: In those days, again, when there was a great crowd, and they did not have anything to eat, calling together his disciples, he said to them
    2: “I have compassion for the multitude, because, behold, they have persevered with me now for three days, and they do not have anything to eat
    3: And if I were to send them away fasting to their home, they might faint on the way.” For some of them came from far away
    4: And his disciples answered him, “From where would anyone be able to obtain enough bread for them in the wilderness?
    5: And he questioned them, “How many loaves do you have?” And they said, “Seven.
    6: And he instructed the crowd to sit down to eat on the ground. And taking the seven loaves, giving thanks, he broke and gave it to his disciples in order to place before them. And they placed these before the crowd
    7: And they had a few small fish. And he blessed them, and he ordered them to be placed before them
    8: And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up what had been leftover from the fragments: seven baskets
    9: And those who ate were about four thousand. And he dismissed them
    10: And promptly climbing into a boat with his disciples, he went into the parts of Dalmanutha
    11: And the Pharisees went out and began to contend with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, testing him
    12: And sighing deeply in spirit, he said: “Why does this generation seek a sign? Amen, I say to you, if only a sign will be given to this generation!
    13: And sending them away, he climbed into the boat again, and he went away across the sea
    14: And they forgot to take bread. And they did not have any with them in the boat, except one loaf
    15: And he instructed them, saying: “Consider and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the leaven of Herod.
    16: And they discussed this with one another, saying, “For we have no bread.
    17: And Jesus, knowing this, said to them: “Why do you consider that it is because you have no bread? Do you not yet know or understand? Do you still have blindness in your heart
    18: Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? Do you not remember
    19: when I broke the five loves among the five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments you took up?” They said to him, “Twelve.
    20: “And when the seven loaves were among the four thousand, how many baskets of fragments did you take up?” And they said to him, “Seven.
    21: And he said to them, “How is it that you do not yet understand?
    22: And they went to Bethsaida. And they brought a blind man to him. And they petitioned him, so that he would touch him
    23: And taking the blind man by the hand, he led him beyond the village. And putting spit on his eyes, laying his hands on him, he asked him if he could see anything
    24: And looking up, he said, “I see men but they are like walking trees.
    25: Next he placed his hands again over his eyes, and he began to see. And he was restored, so that he could see everything clearly
    26: And he sent him to his house, saying, “Go into your own house, and if you enter into the town, tell no one.
    27: And Jesus departed with his disciples into the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way, he questioned his disciples, saying to them, “Who do men say that I am?
    28: And they answered him by saying: “John the Baptist, others Elijah, still others perhaps one of the prophets.
    29: Then he said to them, “Yet truly, who do you say that I am?” Peter responded by saying to him, “You are the Christ.
    30: And he admonished them, not to tell anyone about him
    31: And he began to teach them that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and by the high priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again
    32: And he spoke the word openly. And Peter, taking him aside, began to correct him
    33: And turning away and looking at his disciples, he admonished Peter, saying, “Get behind me, Satan, for you do not prefer the things that are of God, but the things that are of men.
    34: And calling together the crowd with his disciples, he said to them, “If anyone chooses to follow me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me
    35: For whoever will have chosen to save his life, will lose it. But whoever will have lost his life, for my sake and for the Gospel, shall save it
    36: For how does it benefit a man, if he gains the whole world, and yet causes harm to his soul
    37: Or, what will a man give in exchange for his soul
    38: For whoever has been ashamed of me and of my words, among this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of man also will be ashamed of him, when he will arrive in the glory of his Father, with the holy Angels.
    39: And he said to them, “Amen I say to you, that there are some among those standing here who shall not taste death until they see the kingdom of God arriving in power.

End of day 292.