Day 249:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: And he led me into the temple, and he measured the front to be six cubits in width on one side, and six cubits in width on the other side, which is the width of the tabernacle
    2: And the width of the gate was ten cubits. And the sides of the gate were five cubits on one side, and five cubits on the other side. And he measured its length to be forty cubits, and the width to be twenty cubits
    3: And proceeding inward, he measured the front of the gate to be two cubits. And the gate was six cubits, and the width of the gate was seven cubits
    4: And he measured its length to be twenty cubits, and its width to be twenty cubits, before the face of the temple. And he said to me, “This is the Holy of Holies.
    5: And he measured the wall of the house to be six cubits, and the width of the sides to be four cubits, all around the house on every side
    6: Now the side chambers were side by side, and twice thirty-three. And they projected outward, so that they might enter along the wall of the house, on the sides all around, in order to contain, but not touch, the wall of the temple
    7: And there was a broad circular path, rising upward by winding, and it led to the cenacle of the temple by a circular course. As a result, the temple was wider in the higher parts. And so, from the lower parts, they rose up to the higher parts, in the center
    8: And in the house, I saw the height all around the foundations of the side chambers, which were the measure of a reed, the space of six cubits
    9: And the width of the exterior wall for the side chambers was five cubits. And the inner house was within the side chambers of the house
    10: And between the storerooms, there was the width of twenty cubits, all around the house on every side
    11: And the door of the side chambers was toward the place of prayer. One door was toward the way of the north, and one door was toward the way of the south. And the width of the place for prayer was five cubits all around
    12: And the edifice, which was separate, and which verged toward the way looking toward the sea, was seventy cubits in width. But the wall of the edifice was five cubits in width on all sides, and its length was ninety cubits
    13: And he measured the length of the house to be one hundred cubits, and the edifice, which was separate, with its walls, to be one hundred cubits in length
    14: Now the width before the face of the house, and of that which was separate facing the east, was one hundred cubits
    15: And he measured the length of the edifice opposite its face, which was separated at the back, and the porticos on both sides, to be one hundred cubits, with the inner temple and the vestibules of the court
    16: The thresholds, and the oblique windows, and the porticoes, encircling it on three sides, were opposite the threshold of each one, and were floored with wood throughout the entire area. But the floor reached even to the windows, and the windows were closed above the doors
    17: and it reached even to the inner house, and to the exterior, throughout the entire wall, all around the interior and exterior, for the entire extent
    18: And there were cherubim and palm trees wrought, and each palm tree was between one cherub and another, and every cherub had two faces
    19: The face of a man was closest to the palm tree on one side, and the face of a lion was closest to the palm tree on the other side. This was depicted throughout the entire house all around
    20: From the floor, even to the upper parts of the gate, there were cherubim and palm trees engraved in the wall of the temple
    21: The square threshold and the face of the sanctuary were one sight facing the other
    22: The altar of wood was three cubits in height, and its length was two cubits. And its corners, and its length, and its walls were of wood. And he said to me, “This is the table in the sight of the Lord.
    23: And there were two doors in the temple and in the sanctuary
    24: And in the two doors, on both sides, were two little doors, which were folded within each other. For two doors were on both sides of the doors
    25: And cherubim were engraved in the same doors of the temple, with the figures of palm trees, as were depicted also on the walls. For this reason also, the boards were thicker in the front of the vestibule on the exterior
    26: Upon these were the oblique windows, with the representation of palm trees on one side as well as on the other, at the sides of the vestibule, in accord with the sides of the house, and the width of the walls

  Chapter 42.

    1: And he led me into the outer court by the way that leads to the north, and he led me into the storeroom that was opposite the separate edifice, and opposite the shrine that verges toward the north
    2: The length of the face of the north gate was one hundred cubits, and the width was fifty cubits
    3: Opposite the twenty cubits of the interior court, and opposite the layer of pavement stones in the outer court, in that place, there was a portico joined to a triple portico
    4: And before the storerooms, there was a walkway of ten cubits in width, looking toward the interior along a way of one cubit. And their doors were toward the north
    5: In that place, there were storerooms in the upper part of the lower level. For they supported the porticos, which projected from them out of the lower level, and out of the middle of the building
    6: For they were of three levels, and they did not have pillars, as they were like the pillars of the courts. Because of this, they projected from the lower levels and from the middle, fifty cubits from the ground
    7: And the exterior enclosing wall, adjacent to the storerooms that were along the way of the exterior court in front of the storerooms, was fifty cubits long
    8: For the length of the storerooms of the exterior court was fifty cubits, and the length before the face of the temple was one hundred cubits
    9: And under these storerooms, there was an entrance from the east, for those who were entering into it from the outer court
    10: In the width of the enclosing wall of the court that was opposite the way of the east, at the face of the separate edifice, there were also storerooms, before the edifice
    11: And the way before their face was in accord with the form of the storerooms which were along the way of the north. As was their length, so also was their width. And the entire entrance, and the likenesses, and their door
    12: were in accord with the doors of the storerooms that were on the way looking toward the Renown. There was a door at the head of the way, and the way was before a separate vestibule, along the way entering toward the east
    13: And he said to me: “The storerooms of the north, and the storerooms of the south, which are before the separate edifice, these are holy storerooms, in which the priests, who draw near to the Lord in the Holy of Holies, shall eat. There they shall station the Holy of Holies, and the offering for sin, and for trespasses. For it is a holy place
    14: And when the priests will have entered, they shall not depart from the holy places into the outer court. And in that place, they shall set their vestments, in which they minister, for they are holy. And they shall be clothed with other vestments, and in this manner they shall go forth to the people.
    15: And when he had completed measuring the inner house, he led me out along the way of the gate that looked toward the way of the east. And he measured it on every side all around
    16: Then he measured facing the east wind with the measuring reed: five hundred reeds with the measuring reed throughout the course
    17: And he measured facing the wind of the north: five hundred reeds with the measuring reed throughout the course
    18: And toward the south wind, he measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed throughout the course
    19: And toward the west wind, he measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed
    20: By the four winds, he measured its wall, on every side throughout the course: five hundred cubits in length and five hundred cubits in width, dividing between the sanctuary and the place of the common people

  Chapter 43.

    1: And he led me to the gate which looked toward the way of the east
    2: And behold, the glory of the God of Israel entered along the way of the east. And his voice was like the voice of many waters. And the earth was resplendent before his majesty
    3: And I saw a vision in accord with the form that I had seen when he arrived so that he might destroy the city. And the form was in accord with the sight that I had seen beside the river Chebar. And I fell upon my face
    4: And the majesty of the Lord advanced into the temple, along the way of the gate which looked toward the east
    5: And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court. And behold, the house was filled with the glory of the Lord
    6: And I heard someone speaking to me from the house, and the man who was standing beside m
    7: said to me: “Son of man, the place of my throne, and the place of the steps of my feet, is where I live: in the midst of the sons of Israel forever. And the house of Israel, they and their kings, shall no longer defile my holy name by their fornications, and by the ruinous ways of their kings, and by exalted places
    8: They have fabricated their threshold beside my threshold, and their doorposts beside my doorposts. And there was a wall between me and them. And they defiled my holy name by the abominations which they committed. Because of this, I consumed them in my wrath
    9: Now therefore, let them drive away their fornications, and the ruinous ways of their kings, from before me. And I will live in their midst forever
    10: But as for you, son of man, reveal the temple to the house of Israel, and let them be confounded by their iniquities, and let them measure the fabrication
    11: and let them be ashamed at all the things that they have done. Reveal to them the form and the fabrication of the house, its exits and entrances, and its entire description, and all of its precepts, and its entire order, and all of its laws. And you shall write in their sight, so that they may observe its entire description and its precepts, and so that they may accomplish them.
    12: This is the law of the house at the summit of the mountain, with all its parts all around. It is the Holy of Holies. Therefore, this is the law of the house
    13: Now these are the measures of the altar by the most true cubit, which has a cubit and a palm. Its bend was a cubit, and it was a cubit in width. And its boundary, even to its edge and all around, was the width of one palm. The trough of the altar was like this also
    14: And from the bend at the floor even to the furthest rim was two cubits, and the width was one cubit. And from the lesser rim even to the greater rim was four cubits, and the width was one cubit
    15: Now the hearth itself was four cubits. And from the hearth going upward, there were four horns
    16: And the hearth was twelve cubits in length by twelve cubits in width, foursquare, with equal sides
    17: And the rim was fourteen cubits in length, by fourteen cubits in width, at its four corners. And the crown all around it was one half cubit, and its bend was one cubit all around. And its steps turned toward the east
    18: And he said to me: “Son of man, thus says the Lord God: These are the rituals of the altar, in whatever day it will be made, so that holocausts may be offered upon it, and blood may be poured out
    19: And you shall present these to the priests and to the Levites, who are of the offspring of Zadok, those who draw near to me, says the Lord God, so that they may offer to me a calf from the herd on behalf of sin
    20: And you shall take from its blood, and you shall place it on its four horns, and on the four corners of the rim, and on the crown all around. And so shall you cleanse and expiate it
    21: And you shall take the calf, which will be offered for sin, and you shall burn it in a separate place in the house, outside of the sanctuary
    22: And on the second day, you shall offer an immaculate he-goat from among the she-goats on behalf of sin. And they shall expiate the altar, just as they expiated it with the calf
    23: And when you will have completed expiating it, you shall offer an immaculate calf from the herd and an immaculate ram from the flock
    24: And you shall offer them in the sight of the Lord. And the priests shall sprinkle salt over them, and they shall offer them as a holocaust to the Lord
    25: For seven days, you shall offer daily a he-goat on behalf of sin. Also, they shall offer a calf from the herd, and a ram from the flock, ones that are immaculate
    26: For seven days, they shall expiate the altar, and they shall cleanse it, and they shall fill its hand
    27: Then, when the days have been completed, on the eighth day and thereafter, the priests shall offer your holocausts upon the altar along with the peace offering. And I will be pleased with you, says the Lord God.

  Chapter 44.

    1: And he turned me back, toward the way of the gate of the outer sanctuary, which looked toward the east. And it was closed
    2: And the Lord said to me: “This gate will be closed; it will not be opened. And man shall not cross through it. For the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered through it, and it shall be close
    3: to the prince. The prince himself will sit at it, so that he may eat bread before the Lord; he will enter by the way of the vestibule of the gate, and he will depart by the same way.
    4: And he led me in, along the way of the north gate, in the sight of the house. And I saw, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord. And I fell upon my face
    5: And the Lord said to me: “Son of man, set within your heart, and see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I am speaking to you about all the ceremonies of the house of the Lord and about all its laws. And set your heart upon the ways of the temple, along all the exits of the sanctuary
    6: And you shall say to the house of Israel, which provokes me: Thus says the Lord God: Let all your wicked deeds be sufficient for you, O house of Israel
    7: For you bring in foreign sons, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, so that they may be in my sanctuary and may defile my house. And you offer my bread, the fat, and the blood, yet you have broken my covenant by all your wicked deeds
    8: And you have not observed the precepts of my sanctuary, yet you have stationed observers of my vigil in my sanctuary for yourselves
    9: Thus says the Lord God: Any foreigner, any foreign son who is in the midst of the sons of Israel,  who is uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, shall not enter into my sanctuary
    10: And as for the Levites, they have withdrawn far away from me, in the errors of the sons of Israel, and they have gone astray from me after their idols, and they have borne their iniquity
    11: They will be caretakers in my sanctuary, and doorkeepers at the gates of the house, and ministers to the house. They will slay the holocausts and the victims of the people. And they will stand before them, so that they may minister to them
    12: But because they ministered to them in the sight their idols, and they became a stumbling block of iniquity to the house of Israel, for this reason, I have lifted up my hand against them, says the Lord God, and they will bear their iniquity
    13: And they shall not draw near to me, so as to exercise the priesthood for me, and they shall not approach to any of my holy things, which are near the Holy of Holies. Instead, they will bear their shame and their wicked deeds, which they committed
    14: And I will make them doorkeepers of the house, for all its ministries and for all that will be done within it
    15: But the priests and the Levites who are the sons of Zadok, who observed the ceremonies of my sanctuary when the sons of Israel went astray from me, these shall draw near to me, so that they may minister for me. And they shall stand in my sight, so that they may offer to me the fat and the blood, says the Lord God
    16: They shall enter into my sanctuary, and they shall draw near to my table, so that they may minister for me, and so that they may observe my ceremonies
    17: And when they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments. Neither shall anything woolen be placed over them, when they minister within the gates of the inner and the outer court
    18: They shall have linen bands on their heads, and linen undergarments over their loins, and they shall not be girded so as to sweat
    19: And when they go forth to the outer court to the people, they shall strip off their vestments, in which they ministered, and they shall place them in the storeroom of the sanctuary, and they shall clothe themselves with other garments. And they shall not sanctify the people in their vestments
    20: Now they shall not shave their heads, and they shall not grow long hair. Instead, they shall trim the hair of their heads
    21: And no priest shall drink wine, when he will be entering into the inner court
    22: And they shall not take as wife a widow or one who has been divorced. Instead, they shall take virgins from the offspring of the house of Israel. But they may also take a widow, if she is the widow of a priest
    23: And they shall teach my people the difference between holy and defiled, and they shall distinguish for them between clean and unclean
    24: And when there has been a controversy, they shall stand in my judgments, and they shall judge. They shall observe my laws and my precepts, in all my solemnities, and they shall sanctify my Sabbaths
    25: And they shall not enter to a dead person, lest they be defiled, except to father or mother, or son or daughter, or brother, or to a sister who does not have another man. By these, they may become unclean
    26: And after he will have been cleansed, they shall number for him seven days
    27: And on the day when he enters into the sanctuary, to the inner court, so that he may minister to me in the sanctuary, he shall make an offering because of his offense, says the Lord God
    28: And there shall be no inheritance for them. I am their inheritance. And you shall not give them any possession in Israel. For I am their possession
    29: They shall eat the victim both for sin and for offenses. And every vowed offering in Israel shall be theirs
    30: And the first-fruits of all the firstborn, and all the libations out of all that is offered, shall belong to the priests. And you shall give the first-fruits of your foods to the priest, so that he may return a blessing to your house
    31: The priests shall not consume anything which has died on its own, or which was seized by a beast, whether from the fowl or the cattle.

End of day 249.