Day 147:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: Unto the end. To the sons of Korah, for confidants. A Psalm
    2: Our God is our refuge and strength, a helper in the tribulations that have greatly overwhelmed us
    3: Because of this, we will not be afraid when the earth will be turbulent and the mountains will be transferred into the heart of the sea
    4: They thundered, and the waters were stirred up among them; the mountains have been disturbed by his strength
    5: The frenzy of the river rejoices the city of God. The Most High has sanctified his tabernacle
    6: God is in its midst; it will not be shaken. God will assist it in the early morning
    7: The peoples have been disturbed, and the kingdoms have been bowed down. He uttered his voice: the earth has been moved
    8: The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our supporter
    9: Draw near and behold the works of the Lord: what portents he has set upon the earth
    10: carrying away wars even to the end of the earth. He will crush the bow and break the weapons, and he will burn the shield with fire
    11: Be empty, and see that I am God. I will be exalted among the peoples, and I will be exalted upon the earth
    12: The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our supporter

  Chapter 46.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm for the sons of Korah
    2: All nations, clap your hands. Shout joyfully to God with a voice of exultation
    3: For the Lord is exalted and terrible: a great King over all the earth
    4: He has subjected the peoples to us and subdued the nations under our feet
    5: He has chosen us for his inheritance: the splendor of Jacob, whom he has loved
    6: God ascends with jubilation, and the Lord with the voice of the trumpet
    7: Sing psalms to our God, sing psalms. Sing psalms to our King, sing psalms
    8: For God is the King of all the earth. Sing psalms wisely
    9: God will reign over the peoples. God sits upon his holy throne
    10: The leaders of the peoples have been gathered together by the God of Abraham. For the strong gods of the earth have been exceedingly exalted

  Chapter 47.

    1: A Canticle Psalm. To the sons of Korah, on the second Sabbath
    2: The Lord is great and exceedingly praiseworthy, in the city of our God, on his holy mountain
    3: Mount Zion is being founded with the exultation of the whole earth, on the north side, the city of the great king
    4: In her houses, God will be known, since he will support her
    5: For behold, the kings of the earth have been gathered together; they have convened as one
    6: Such did they see, and they were astonished: they were disturbed, they were moved
    7: Trembling took hold of them. In that place, their pains were that of a woman in labor
    8: With a vehement spirit, you will crush the ships of Tarshish
    9: As we have heard, so we have seen, in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God. God has founded it in eternity
    10: We have received your mercy, O God, in the midst of your temple
    11: According to your name, O God, so does your praise reach to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is full of justice
    12: Let mount Zion rejoice, and let the daughters of Judah exult, because of your judgments, O Lord
    13: Encircle Zion and embrace her. Discourse in her towers
    14: Set your hearts on her virtue. And distribute her houses, so that you may discourse of it in another generation
    15: For this is God, our God, in eternity and forever and ever. He will rule us forever

  Chapter 48.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm to the sons of Korah
    2: Hear these things, all nations. Pay attention, all inhabitants of the world
    3: whoever is earth-born, you sons of men, together as one, the rich and the poor
    4: My mouth will speak wisdom, and the meditation of my heart will speak prudence
    5: I will incline my ear to a parable. I will open my case with the psaltery
    6: Why should I fear in the evil day? The iniquity at my heel will surround me
    7: Those who trust in their own strength and who glory in the multitude of their riches
    8: no brother redeems, nor will man buy back. He will not give to God his appeasement
    9: nor the price for the redemption of his soul. And he will labor continuously
    10: and he will still live, until the end
    11: He will not see death, when he sees the wise dying: the foolish and the senseless will perish together. And they will leave their riches to strangers
    12: And their sepulchers will be their houses forever, their tabernacles from generation to generation. They have called their names in their own lands
    13: And man, when he was held in honor, did not understand. He has been compared to the senseless beasts, and he has become like them
    14: This way of theirs is a scandal to them. And afterwards, they will delight in their mouth
    15: They have been placed in Hell like sheep. Death will feed on them. And the just will have dominion over them in the morning. And their help will grow old in Hell for their glory
    16: Even so, truly God will redeem my soul from the hand of Hell, when he will receive me
    17: Do not be afraid, when a man will have been made rich, and when the glory of his house will have been multiplied
    18: For when he dies, he will take nothing away, and his glory will not descend with him
    19: For his soul will be blessed in his lifetime, and he will admit to you when you do good to him
    20: He will even enter with the progeny of his fathers, but, even in eternity, he will not see the light
    21: Man, when he was in honor, did not understand. He has been compared to the senseless beasts, and he has become like them

End of day 147.