Day 168:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['129', '130', '131', '132']:

  Chapter 129.

    1: A Canticle in steps. From the depths, I have cried out to you, O Lord
    2: O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication
    3: If you, O Lord, were to heed iniquities, who, O Lord, could persevere
    4: For with you, there is forgiveness, and because of your law, I persevered with you, Lord. My soul has persevered in his word
    5: My soul has hoped in the Lord
    6: From the morning watch, even until night, let Israel hope in the Lord
    7: For with the Lord there is mercy, and with him there is bountiful redemption
    8: And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities

  Chapter 130.

    1: A Canticle in steps: of David. O Lord, my heart has not been exalted, and my eyes have not been raised up. Neither have I walked in greatness, nor in wonders beyond me
    2: When I was not humble in thought, then I lifted up my soul. Like one who has been weaned from his mother, so was I recompensed in my soul
    3: Let Israel hope in the Lord, from this time forward and even forever

  Chapter 131.

    1: A Canticle in steps. O Lord, remember David and all his meekness
    2: how he swore to the Lord, how he made a vow to the God of Jacob
    3: I shall not enter into the tabernacle of my house, nor climb into the bed where I lie down
    4: I shall not give sleep to my eyes, nor slumber to my eyelid
    5: and rest to my temples, until I find a place for the Lord, a tabernacle for the God of Jacob
    6: Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah. We discovered it in the fields of the forest
    7: We will enter into his tabernacle. We will adore in the place where his feet stood
    8: Rise up, O Lord, into your resting place. You and the ark of your sanctification
    9: Let your priests be clothed with justice, and let your saints exult
    10: For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your Christ
    11: The Lord has sworn the truth to David, and he will not disappoint: I will set upon your throne from the fruit of your lineage
    12: If your sons will keep my covenant and these, my testimonies, which I will teach to them, then their sons will sit upon your throne even forever
    13: For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has chosen it as his dwelling place
    14: This is my resting place, forever and ever. Here I will dwell, for I have chosen it
    15: When blessing, I will bless her widow. I will satisfy her poor with bread
    16: I will clothe her priests with salvation, and her saints will rejoice with great joy
    17: There, I will produce a horn to David. There, I have prepared a lamp for my Christ
    18: I will clothe his enemies with confusion. But my sanctification will flourish over him

  Chapter 132.

    1: A Canticle in steps: of David. Behold, how good and how pleasing it is for brothers to dwell in unity
    2: It is like the ointment on the head that descended to the beard, the beard of Aaron, which descended to the hem of his garment
    3: It is like the dew of Hermon, which descended from mount Zion. For in that place, the Lord has commanded a blessing, and life, even unto eternity

End of day 168.