Day 216:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['45', '46', '47', '48']:

  Chapter 45.

    1: Thus says the Lord to my anointed Cyrus, whose right hand I hold, so that I may subjugate the nations before his face, and I may turn the backs of kings, and I may open the doors before him, and so that the gates will not be shut
    2: I will go before you. And I will humble the glorious ones of the earth. I will shatter the gates of brass, and I will break apart the bars of iron
    3: And I will give you hidden treasures and the knowledge of secret things, so that you may know that I am the Lord, the God of Israel, who calls your name
    4: For the sake of Jacob, my servant, and Israel, my elect, I have even called you by your name. I have taken you up, and you have not known me
    5: I am the Lord, and there is no one else. There is no god beside me. I girded you, and you have not known me
    6: So may those who are from the rising of the sun, and those who are from its setting, know that there is no one beside me. I am the Lord, and there is no other
    7: I form the light and create the darkness. I make peace and create disaster. I, the Lord, do all these things
    8: Send down dew from above, O heavens, and let the clouds rain down upon the just! Let the earth open and spring forth a savior! And let justice rise up at once! I, the Lord, have created him
    9: Woe to him who contradicts his Maker, a mere shard from an earthen vessel! Should the clay say to the potter, “What are you making?” or, “Your work is not made by your hands?
    10: Woe to him who says to his father, “Why did you conceive?” or to a woman, “Why did you give birth?
    11: Thus says the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, his Maker: Would you question me about the future, concerning my sons, and command me concerning the work of my hands
    12: I made the earth, and I created man upon it. My hand stretched out the heavens, and I have commanded all their hosts
    13: I have raised him up unto justice, and I will direct all his ways. He himself will build my city and release my captives, but not for ransom or gifts, says the Lord, the God of hosts
    14: Thus says the Lord: The labor of Egypt, and the business dealings of Ethiopia, and of the Sabeans, men of stature, will pass to you and will be yours. They will walk behind you. They will travel, bound in irons. And they will adore you and petition you: “In you alone is God, and there is no God apart from you
    15: Truly, you are a hidden God, the God of Israel, the Savior.
    16: They have all been confounded and should be ashamed! These fabricators of errors have departed together into confusion
    17: Israel is saved in the Lord by an eternal salvation. You will not be confounded, and you will not be ashamed, even forever and ever
    18: For thus says the Lord, who created the heavens, God himself who formed the earth and made it, the very Molder of it. He did not create it to no purpose. He formed it so that it would be inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is no other
    19: I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth. I have not said to the offspring of Jacob, “Seek me in vain.” I am the Lord, who speaks justice, who announces what is right
    20: Assemble yourselves, and approach, and draw near together, you who have been saved among the Gentiles. They lack knowledge, who lift up the wood of their sculpture, and who petition a god unable to save
    21: Announce it, and approach, and consult together. Who has caused this to be heard from the beginning, and who has foretold it from that time? Is it not I, the Lord? And is there some other god beside me? I am a just God who saves, and there is no one except me
    22: All ends of the earth, be converted to me, and you will be saved. For I am God, and there is no other
    23: I have sworn by myself. The Word of justice will proceed from my mouth, and it will not turn back
    24: For every knee shall bend to me, and every tongue shall swear it
    25: Therefore, he will say, “In the Lord are my justices and my dominion.” They will go to him. And all who fight against him will be confounded
    26: In the Lord, all the offspring of Israel will be justified and praised

  Chapter 46.

    1: Bel has been broken. Nebo has been crushed. Their idols have been placed upon beasts and cattle, your grievous heavy burdens, even unto exhaustion
    2: They have been melted down, or have been smashed together. They were not able to save the one who carried them, and their life will go into captivity
    3: Listen to me, house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who are carried in my bosom, who were born from my womb
    4: Even to your old age, I am the same. And even with your grey hairs, I will carry you. I have made you, and I will sustain you. I will carry you, and I will save you
    5: To whom would you liken me, or equate me, or compare me, or consider me to be similar
    6: You take gold from a bag, and you weigh silver on a scale, so as to hire a goldsmith to make a god. And they fall prostrate and adore
    7: They carry him on their shoulders, supporting him, and they set him in his place. And he will stand still and will not move from his place. But even when they will cry out to him, he will not hear. He will not save them from tribulation
    8: Remember this, and be confounded. Return, you transgressors, to the heart
    9: Remember the past ages. For I am God, and there is no other god. There is no one like me
    10: From the beginning, I announce the last things, and from the start, the things that have not yet been done, saying: My plan will stand firm, and my entire will shall be done
    11: I call a bird from the east, and from a far away land, the man of my will. And I have spoken it, and I will carry it out. I have created, and I will act
    12: Hear me, you who are hard of heart, who are far from justice
    13: I have brought my justice near. It will not be far away, and my salvation will not be delayed. I will grant salvation in Zion, and my glory in Israel

  Chapter 47.

    1: Descend, sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon! Sit on the ground. There is no throne for the daughter of the Chaldeans. For you shall no longer be called delicate and tender
    2: Take a millstone and grind meal. Uncover your shame, bare your shoulder, reveal your legs, cross the streams
    3: Your disgrace will be revealed, and your shame will be seen. I will seize vengeance, and no man will withstand me
    4: Our Redeemer, the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel
    5: Sit in silence, and enter into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans! For you shall no longer be called the noblewoman of kingdoms
    6: I was angry with my people. I have polluted my inheritance, and I have given them into your hand. You have not shown mercy to them. You have greatly increased the burden of your yoke upon the elders
    7: And you have said: “I will be a noblewoman forever.” You have not set these things upon your heart, and you have not remembered your end
    8: And now, hear these things, you who are delicate and have confidence, who say in your heart: “I am, and there is no one greater than me. I will not sit as a widow, and I will not know barrenness.
    9: These two things will suddenly overwhelm you in one day: barrenness and widowhood. All things shall overwhelm you, because of the multitude of your sorceries and because of the great cruelty of your enchantments
    10: And you have trusted in your malice, and you have said: “There is no one who sees me.” Your wisdom and your knowledge, these have deceived you. And you have said in your heart: “I am, and beside me there is no other.
    11: Evil will overwhelm you, and you will not notice its rising. And calamity will fall violently over you, and you will not be able to avert it. You will suddenly be overwhelmed by a misery such as you have never known
    12: Stand with your incantations, and with the multitude of your sorceries, in which you have labored from your youth, as if somehow it might benefit you, or as if it were able to make you stronger
    13: You have failed in the multitude of your plans! Let the seers stand and save you, those who were contemplating the stars, and figuring the months, so that from these they might announce to you the things to come
    14: Behold, they have become like stubble. Fire has consumed them. They will not free themselves from the power of the flames. These are not coals by which they may be warmed, nor is this a fire which they may sit beside
    15: So have all these things, in which you have labored, become to you. Your merchants from your youth, each one has erred in his own way. There is no one who can save you

  Chapter 48.

    1: Listen to these things, O house of Jacob, you who are called by the name of Israel, and who went forth from the waters of Judah. You swear by the name of the Lord and you call to mind the God of Israel, but not in truth, and not in justice
    2: For they have been called from the holy city, and they have been founded upon the God of Israel. The Lord of hosts is his name
    3: From that time, I announced the former things. They went forth from my mouth, and I have caused them to be heard. I wrought these things suddenly, and they were fulfilled
    4: For I knew that you are stubborn, and that your neck is like an iron sinew, and that your forehead is like brass
    5: From that time, I foretold to you. Before these things happened, I revealed them to you, lest you say: “My idols have accomplished these things, and my graven and molten images have commanded them.
    6: See all the things that you have heard. But were you the ones who announced them? From that time, I caused you to hear about new things, and you do not know how these were preserved
    7: They are created now, and not in that time. And even before today, you did not hear of them; otherwise, you might say, “Behold, I knew them.
    8: You have neither heard, nor known, nor were your ears open in that time. For I knew that you would transgress greatly, and so I called you a transgressor from the womb
    9: For the sake of my name, I will take the face of my fury far away. And for the sake of my praise, I will bridle you, lest you perish
    10: Behold, I have refined you, but not like silver. I have chosen you for the furnace of poverty
    11: For my sake, for my own sake, I will do it, so that I may not be blasphemed. For I will not give my glory to another
    12: Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel whom I call. I am the same, I am the first, and I am the last
    13: Also, my hand has founded the earth, and my right hand has measured the heavens. I will call them, and they will stand together
    14: Gather together, all of you, and listen. Who among them has announced these things? The Lord has loved him; he will do his will with Babylon, and his arm is upon the Chaldeans
    15: I am, I have spoken, and I have called him. I have led him forward, and his way has been straight
    16: Draw near to me, and listen to this. From the beginning, I have not spoken in secret. From the time before it happened, I was there. And now, the Lord God has sent me, and his Spirit
    17: Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the Lord, your God, who teaches you beneficial things, who guides you in the way that you walk
    18: If only you had paid attention to my commandments! Your peace would have been like a river, and your justice would have been like the waves of the sea
    19: and your offspring would have been like the sand, and the stock from your loins would have been like its stones. His name would not have passed away, nor would it have been worn away before my face
    20: Depart from Babylon! Flee from the Chaldeans! Announce it with a voice of exultation. Cause it to be heard, and carry it even to the ends of the earth. Say: “The Lord has redeemed his servant Jacob.
    21: They did not thirst in the desert, when he led them out. He produced water from the rock for them. For he split the rock, and the waters flowed out
    22: “There is no peace for the impious,” says the Lord

End of day 216.