Day 306:

Reading John, chapters ['21']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: After this, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And he manifested himself in this way
    2: These were together: Simon Peter and Thomas, who is called the Twin, and Nathanael, who was from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples
    3: Simon Peter said to them, “I am going fishing.” They said to him, “And we are going with you.” And they went and climbed into the ship. And in that night, they caught nothing
    4: But when morning arrived, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus
    5: Then Jesus said to them, “Children, do you have any food?” They answered him, “No.
    6: He said to them, “Cast the net to the right side of the ship, and you will find some.” Therefore, they cast it out, and then they were not able to draw it in, because of the multitude of fish
    7: Therefore, the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord.” Simon Peter, when he had heard that it was the Lord, wrapped his tunic around himself, (for he was naked) and he cast himself into the sea
    8: Then the other disciples arrived in a boat, (for they were not far from the land, only about two hundred cubits) dragging the net with the fish
    9: Then, when they climbed down to the land they saw burning coals prepared, and fish already placed above them, and bread
    10: Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish that you have just now caught.
    11: Simon Peter climbed up and drew in the net to land: full of large fish, one hundred and fifty-three of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn
    12: Jesus said to them, “Approach and dine.” And not one of them sitting down to eat dared to ask him, “Who are you?” For they knew that it was the Lord
    13: And Jesus approached, and he took bread, and he gave it to them, and similarly with the fish
    14: This was now the third time that Jesus was manifested to his disciples, after he had resurrected from the dead
    15: Then, when they had dined, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord, you know that I love you.” He said to him, “Feed my lambs.
    16: He said to him again: “Simon, son of John, do you love me?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord, you know that I love you.” He said to him, “Feed my lambs.
    17: He said to him a third time, “Simon, son of John, do you love me?” Peter was very grieved that he had asked him a third time, “Do you love me?” And so he said to him: “Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you.” He said to him, “Feed my sheep
    18: Amen, amen, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked wherever you wanted. But when you are older, you will extend your hands, and another shall gird you and lead you where you do not want to go.
    19: Now he said this to signify by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when he had said this, he said to him, “Follow me.
    20: Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following, the one who also had leaned on his chest at supper and said, “Lord, who is it who shall betray you?
    21: Therefore, when Peter had seen him, he said to Jesus, “Lord, but what about this one?
    22: Jesus said to him: “If I want him to remain until I return, what is that to you? You follow me.
    23: Therefore, the saying went out among the brothers that this disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but only, “If I want him to remain until I return, what is that to you?
    24: This is the same disciple who offers testimony about these things, and who has written these things. And we know that his testimony is true
    25: Now there are also many other things that Jesus did, which, if each of these were written down, the world itself, I suppose, would not be able to contain the books that would be written

End of day 306.