Day 140:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: Unto the end. For David, the servant of the Lord, who spoke the words of this canticle to the Lord, in the day that the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. And he said
    2: I will love you, O Lord my strength
    3: The Lord is my firmament, my refuge, and my liberator. My God is my helper, and I hope in him: my protector, and the horn of my salvation, and my support
    4: Praising, I will call upon the Lord. And I will be saved from my enemies
    5: The sorrows of death surrounded me, and the torrents of iniquity dismayed me
    6: The sorrows of Hell encompassed me, and the snares of death intercepted me
    7: In my tribulation, I called upon the Lord, and I cried out to my God. And he listened to my voice from his holy temple. And my cry in his presence entered into his ears
    8: The earth was shaken, and it trembled. The foundations of the mountains were disturbed, and they were shaken, because he was angry with them
    9: A smoke ascended by his wrath, and a fire flared up from his face: coals were kindled by it
    10: He bent the heavens, and they descended. And darkness was under his feet
    11: And he ascended upon the cherubim, and he flew: he flew upon the feathers of the winds
    12: And he set darkness as his hiding place, with his tabernacle all around him: dark waters in the clouds of the air
    13: At the brightness that was before his sight, the clouds crossed by, with hail and coals of fire
    14: And the Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice: hail and coals of fire
    15: And he sent forth his arrows and scattered them. He multiplied lightnings, and he set them in disarray
    16: Then the fountains of waters appeared, and the foundations of the world were revealed, by your rebuke, O Lord, by the inspiration of the Spirit of your wrath
    17: He sent from on high, and he accepted me. And he took me up, out of many waters
    18: He rescued me from my strongest enemies, and from those who hated me. For they had been too strong for me
    19: They intercepted me in the day of my affliction, and the Lord became my protector
    20: And he led me out, into a wide place. He accomplished my salvation, because he willed me
    21: And the Lord will reward me according to my justice, and he will repay me according to the purity of my hands
    22: For I have preserved the ways of the Lord, and I have not behaved impiously before my God
    23: For all his judgments are in my sight, and his justice, I have not pushed away from me
    24: And I will be immaculate together with him, and I will keep myself from my iniquity
    25: And the Lord will reward me according to my justice and according to the purity of my hands before his eyes
    26: With the holy, you will be holy, and with the innocent, you will be innocent
    27: and with the elect, you will be elect, and with the perverse, you will be perverse
    28: For you will save the humble people, but you will bring down the eyes of the arrogant
    29: For you illuminate my lamp, O Lord. My God, enlighten my darkness
    30: For in you, I will be delivered from temptation; and with my God, I will climb over a wall
    31: As for my God, his way is undefiled. The eloquence of the Lord has been examined by fire. He is the protector of all who hope in him
    32: For who is God, except the Lord? And who is God, except our God
    33: It is God who has wrapped me with virtue and made my way immaculate
    34: It is he who has perfected my feet, like the feet of deer, and who stations me upon the heights
    35: It is he who trains my hands for battle. And you have set my arms like a bow of brass
    36: And you have given me the protection of your salvation. And your right hand sustains me. And your discipline has corrected me unto the end. And your discipline itself will teach me
    37: You have expanded my footsteps under me, and my tracks have not been weakened
    38: I will pursue my enemies and apprehend them. And I will not turn back until they have failed
    39: I will break them, and they will not be able to stand. They will fall under my feet
    40: And you have wrapped me with virtue for the battle. And those rising up against me, you have subdued under me
    41: And you have given the back of my enemies to me, and you have destroyed those who hated me
    42: They cried out, but there was none to save them, to the Lord, but he did not heed them
    43: And I will crush them into dust before the face of the wind, so that I will obliterate them like the mud in the streets
    44: You will rescue me from the contradictions of the people. You will set me at the head of the Gentiles
    45: A people I did not know has served me. As soon as their ears heard, they were obedient to me
    46: The sons of foreigners have been deceitful to me, the sons of foreigners have grown weak with time, and they have wavered from their paths
    47: The Lord lives, and blessed is my God, and may the God of my salvation be exalted
    48: O God, who vindicates me and who subdues the people under me, my liberator from my enraged enemies
    49: And you will exalt me above those who rise up against me. From the iniquitous man, you will rescue me
    50: Because of this, O Lord, I will confess to you among the nations, and I will compose a psalm to your name
    51: magnifying the salvation of his king, and showing mercy to David, his Christ, and to his offspring, even for all time

  Chapter 18.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: The heavens describe the glory of God, and the firmament announces the work of his hands
    3: Day proclaims the word to day, and night to night imparts knowledge
    4: There are no speeches or conversations, where their voices are not being heard
    5: Their sound has gone forth through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world
    6: He has placed his tabernacle in the sun, and he is like a bridegroom coming out of his bedroom. He has exulted like a giant running along the way
    7: his departure is from the summit of heaven. And his course reaches all the way to its summit. Neither is there anyone who can hide himself from his heat
    8: The law of the Lord is immaculate, converting souls. The testimony of the Lord is faithful, providing wisdom to little ones
    9: The justice of the Lord is right, rejoicing hearts. The precepts of the Lord are brilliant, enlightening the eyes
    10: The fear of the Lord is holy, enduring for all generations. The judgments of the Lord are true, justified in themselves
    11: desirable beyond gold and many precious stones, and sweeter than honey and the honeycomb
    12: For, indeed, your servant keeps them, and in keeping them, there are many rewards
    13: Who can understand transgression? From my hidden faults, cleanse me, O Lord
    14: and from those of others, spare your servant. If they will have no dominion over me, then I will be immaculate, and I will be cleansed from the greatest transgression
    15: And the eloquence of my mouth will be so as to please, along with the meditation of my heart, in your sight, forever, O Lord, my helper and my redeemer

  Chapter 19.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: May the Lord hear you in the day of tribulation. May the name of the God of Jacob protect you
    3: May he send you help from the sanctuary and watch over you from Zion
    4: May he be mindful of all your sacrifices, and may your burnt-offerings be fat
    5: May he grant to you according to your heart, and confirm all your counsels
    6: We will rejoice in your salvation, and in the name of our God, we will be magnified
    7: May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. Now I know that the Lord has saved his Christ. He will hear him from his holy heaven. The salvation of his right hand is in his power
    8: Some trust in chariots, and some in horses, but we will call upon the name of the Lord our God
    9: They have been bound, and they have fallen. But we have risen up, and we have been set upright
    10: O Lord, save the king, and hear us on the day that we will call upon you

  Chapter 20.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: In your virtue, Lord, the king will rejoice, and over your salvation, he will exult exceedingly
    3: You have granted him the desire of his heart, and you have not cheated him of the wish of his lips
    4: For you have gone ahead of him with blessings of sweetness. You have placed a crown of precious stones on his head
    5: He petitioned you for life, and you have granted him length of days, in the present time, and forever and ever
    6: Great is his glory in your salvation. Glory and great adornment, you will lay upon him
    7: For you will give him as a blessing forever and ever. You will make him rejoice with gladness in your presence
    8: Because the king hopes in the Lord, and in the mercy of the Most High, he will not be disturbed
    9: May your hand be found by all your enemies. May your right hand discover all those who hate you
    10: You will make them like an oven of fire, in the time of your presence. The Lord will stir them up with his wrath, and fire will devour them
    11: You will destroy their fruit from the earth and their offspring from the sons of men
    12: For they have turned evils upon you; they have devised plans, which they have not been able to accomplish
    13: For you will make them turn their back; with your remnants, you will prepare their countenance
    14: Be exalted, Lord, by your own power. We will play music and sing psalms to your virtues

End of day 140.