Day 218:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['53', '54', '55', '56']:

  Chapter 53.

    1: Who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed
    2: And he will rise up like a tender plant in his sight, and like a root from the thirsty ground. There is no beautiful or stately appearance in him. For we looked upon him, and there was no aspect, such that we would desire him
    3: He is despised and the least among men, a man of sorrows who knows infirmity. And his countenance was hidden and despised. Because of this, we did not esteem him
    4: Truly, he has taken away our weaknesses, and he himself has carried our sorrows. And we thought of him as if he were a leper, or as if he had been struck by God and humiliated
    5: But he himself was wounded because of our iniquities. He was bruised because of our wickedness. The discipline of our peace was upon him. And by his wounds, we are healed
    6: We have all gone astray like sheep; each one has turned aside to his own way. And the Lord has placed all our iniquity upon him
    7: He was offered up, because it was his own will. And he did not open his mouth. He will be led like a sheep to the slaughter. And he will be mute like a lamb before his shearer. For he will not open his mouth
    8: He was lifted up from anguish and judgment. Who will describe his life? For he has been cut off from the land of the living. Because of the wickedness of my people, I have struck him down
    9: And he will be given a place with the impious for his burial, and with the rich for his death, though he has done no iniquity, nor was deceit in his mouth
    10: But it was the will of the Lord to crush him with infirmity. If he lays down his life because of sin, he will see offspring with long lives, and the will of the Lord will be directed by his hand
    11: Because his soul has labored, he will see and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my just servant will himself justify many, and he himself will carry their iniquities
    12: Therefore, I will allot to him a great number. And he will divide the spoils of the strong. For he has handed over his life to death, and he was reputed among criminals. And he has taken away the sins of many, and he has prayed for the transgressors

  Chapter 54.

    1: Give praise, you who are barren and unable to conceive. Sing praise and make a joyful noise, you who have not given birth. For many are the children of the desolate, more so than of her who has a husband, says the Lord
    2: Enlarge the place of your tent and extend the skins of your tabernacles, unsparingly. Lengthen your cords, and strengthen your stakes
    3: For you shall extend to the right and to the left. And your offspring shall inherit the nations, and you shall inhabit the desolate cities
    4: Do not be afraid! For you will not be confounded, and you will not blush. And you will not be put to shame, because you shall forget the confusion of your youth, and you shall no longer remember the disgrace of your widowhood
    5: For the One who made you will rule over you. The Lord of hosts is his name. And your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, will be called the God of all the earth
    6: For the Lord has called you, like a woman forsaken and mourning in spirit, and like a wife rejected in her youth, said your God
    7: For a brief moment, I have forsaken you, and with great pities, I will gather you
    8: In a moment of indignation, I have hidden my face from you, for a little while. But with everlasting mercy, I have taken pity on you, said your Redeemer, the Lord
    9: For me, it is just as in the days of Noah, to whom I swore that I would no longer bring in the waters of Noah over the earth. Thus have I sworn not to be angry with you, and not to rebuke you
    10: For the mountains will be moved, and the hills will tremble. But my mercy will not depart from you, and the covenant of my peace will not be shaken, said the Lord, who has compassion on you
    11: O poor little ones, convulsed by the tempest, away from any consolation! Behold, I will set your stones in order, and I will lay your foundation with sapphires
    12: and I will make your ramparts out of jasper, and your gates out of sculpted stones, and all your borders out of desirable stones
    13: All your children will be taught by the Lord. And great will be the peace of your children
    14: And you will be founded in justice. Depart far from oppression, for you will not be afraid. And depart from terror, for it will not approach you
    15: Behold, a settler will arrive, who was not with me, a certain new arrival will be joined to you
    16: Behold, I created the smith who fans the coals of the fire and produces an object by his work, and I have created the slayer who destroys
    17: No object which has been formed to use against you will succeed. And every tongue that resists you in judgment, you shall judge. This is the inheritance of the servants of the Lord, and this is their justice with me, says the Lord

  Chapter 55.

    1: All you who thirst, come to the waters. And you who have no money: hurry, buy and eat. Approach, buy wine and milk, without money and without barter
    2: Why do you spend money for what is not bread, and expend your labor for what does not satisfy? Listen very closely to me, and eat what is good, and then your soul will be delighted by a full measure
    3: Incline your ear and draw near to me. Listen, and your soul will live. And I will make an everlasting covenant with you, by the faithful mercies of David
    4: Behold, I have presented him as a witness to the people, as a commander and instructor to the nations
    5: Behold, you will call to a nation that you did not know. And nations that did not know you will rush to you, because of the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel. For he has glorified you
    6: Seek the Lord, while he is able to be found. Call upon him, while he is near
    7: Let the impious one abandon his way, and the iniquitous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord, and he will take pity on him, and to our God, for he is great in forgiveness
    8: For my thoughts are not your thoughts, and your ways are not my ways, says the Lord
    9: For just as the heavens are exalted above the earth, so also are my ways exalted above your ways, and my thoughts above your thoughts
    10: And in the same manner as rain and snow descend from heaven, and no longer return there, but soak the earth, and water it, and cause it to bloom and to provide seed to the sower and bread to the hungry
    11: so also will my word be, which will go forth from my mouth. It will not return to me empty, but it will accomplish whatever I will, and it will prosper in the tasks for which I sent it
    12: For you will go forth rejoicing, and you will be led forward in peace. The mountains and the hills will sing praise before you, and all the trees of the countryside will clap their hands
    13: In place of the shrub, the pine tree will arise, and in place of the nettle, the myrtle tree will grow. And the Lord will be named with an eternal sign, which will not be taken away

  Chapter 56.

    1: Thus says the Lord: Preserve judgment, and accomplish justice. For my salvation is close to its arrival, and my justice is close to being revealed
    2: Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds to this, keeping the Sabbath and not profaning it, guarding his hands and not doing any evil
    3: And let not the son of the new arrival, who adheres to the Lord, speak, saying, “The Lord will divide and separate me from his people.” And let not the eunuch say, “Behold, I am a dry tree.
    4: For thus says the Lord to the eunuchs: They will keep my Sabbaths, and they will choose the things that I will, and they will hold to my covenant
    5: I will give them a place in my house, within my walls, and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name, which will never perish
    6: And the sons of the new arrival, who adhere to the Lord so as to worship him and to love his name, shall be his servants: all who keep the Sabbath without profaning it, and who hold to my covenant
    7: I will lead them to my holy mountain, and I will gladden them in my house of prayer. Their holocausts and their victims will be pleasing to me upon my altar. For my house will be called the house of prayer for all peoples
    8: The Lord God, who gathers the dispersed of Israel, says: Even now, I will gather his congregation to him
    9: All beasts of the field, all the beasts of the forest: approach and devour
    10: His watchmen are all blind. They are all ignorant. They are mute dogs without the ability to bark, seeing empty things, sleeping and loving dreams
    11: And these very imprudent dogs have never known satisfaction. The shepherds themselves do not know understanding. All have turned aside in their own way, each one to his own avarice, from the highest even to the least
    12: “Come, let us take wine, and be filled by inebriation. And as it is today, so shall it be tomorrow and for a long time.

End of day 218.