Day 197:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['20', '21', '22', '23']:

  Chapter 20.

    1: How much better is it to reprove, than to become angry, so as not to hinder him who may confess in prayer
    2: The lust of an eunuch will deflower a young maiden
    3: similar is he who by violence gives an iniquitous judgment
    4: How good it is, when you are corrected, to show contrition! For in this way, you will escape deliberate sin
    5: There is one who, by remaining silent, is found to be wise. And there is another who is hateful and who provokes by speaking out
    6: There is one who, not having the understanding to speak, remains silent. And there is another who remains silent, knowing the proper time
    7: A wise man will remain silent until the proper time. But an unrestrained and imprudent person will not heed the times
    8: Whoever uses many words will wound his own soul. And whoever unjustly takes authority upon himself will be hated
    9: There is advancement in evil for an undisciplined man, and there is a plan which turns to his detriment
    10: There is a gift which is not helpful, and there is a gift, the repayment for which is double
    11: There is a loss for the sake of boasting, and there is one who will lift up his head from lowliness
    12: There is one who buys much for a small price, and who pays it back sevenfold
    13: Anyone wise in words makes himself loved. But the graces of the foolish will be poured away
    14: A gift from the unwise will not benefit you. For his gaze is divided, sevenfold
    15: He will give little, and reproach much. And the opening of his mouth is like a burning flame
    16: There is one who lends today and demands repayment tomorrow. A man such as this is hateful
    17: A foolish man will not have a friend, and there will be no thanks for his good deeds
    18: For those who eat his bread have a false tongue. How often and how many are those who will ridicule him
    19: For what he possesses, he does not distribute with correct understanding. And he acts similarly with what he does not possess
    20: The slip of a false tongue is like someone who falls upon pavement. Such a fall for the wicked will arrive quickly
    21: A disagreeable man is like a pointless fable; it will be continually in the mouth of the undisciplined
    22: A parable from the mouth of a fool will be rejected. For he does not speak it at the proper time
    23: There is one who is prevented from sinning by poverty, and in his rest, he will be vexed
    24: There is one who will lose his own soul because of pretense, and he will lose it by an example of imprudence. For by seeking the approval of another, he will destroy himself
    25: There is one who, for the sake of what others think, makes a promise to a friend, and so he gains him as an enemy for no reason
    26: A lie is a wicked disgrace to a man, and yet lies will be continually in the mouths of those without discipline
    27: A thief is better than a man who constantly lies. But both of them will inherit perdition
    28: The habits of lying men are without honor. And their shame is with them without ceasing
    29: A wise man will benefit himself by his own words, and a prudent man will please the powerful
    30: Whoever works his land will raise high a stockpile of grain. And whoever works justice will himself be raised high. Yet truly, whoever pleases the  powerful will escape unfair treatment
    31: Presents and gifts blind the eyes of judges, and silence their mouths, turning them aside from their task of correction
    32: Wisdom hidden, and treasure unseen: of what use is either of these
    33: He who hides his foolishness is better than a man who conceals his wisdom

  Chapter 21.

    1: Son, have you sinned? You should not add further sins. Then too, for your former sins, pray so that they may be forgiven you
    2: Flee from sins, as if from the face of a serpent. For if you approach them, they will take hold of you
    3: Their teeth are like the teeth of a lion, bringing death to the souls of men
    4: All iniquity is like a two-edged spear; there is no healing in its wound
    5: Reproach and injury will make resources useless. And a house that is exceedingly wealthy will become powerless through pride. In this way, the resources of the arrogant will be eradicated
    6: Supplications from the mouth of the pauper will reach all the way to the ears of God, and judgment will come to him quickly
    7: Whoever hates correction is walking in the steps of a sinner. But whoever fears God will convert within his heart
    8: He who has power by means of a bold tongue will be known from far away. But an understanding man knows to slip past him
    9: Whoever builds his house, paid for by another, is like one who gathers his building stones in winter
    10: The synagogue of sinners is like stubble piled up; for the end of them both is a burning fire
    11: The way of sinners is paved and level, and at their end is hell and darkness and punishments
    12: Whoever observes justice will obtain an understanding of it
    13: The consummation of the fear of God is wisdom and understanding
    14: One who is not wise in goodness will not accept instruction
    15: Now there is a wisdom which abounds in evil. But there is no understanding where there is bitterness
    16: The knowledge of the wise will increase like a flood, and his counsel will continue like a fountain of life
    17: The heart of the foolish is like a broken vessel, for it will not hold any wisdom
    18: A knowledgeable man will praise any wise word he hears, and he will apply it to himself. The self-indulgent man has heard it, and it displeases him, and so he casts it behind his back
    19: The talk of the foolish is like a burden on a journey. But in the lips of the understanding, grace will be found
    20: The mouth of the prudent is sought in the Church, and they will consider his words in their hearts
    21: Like a house which has been demolished, so is wisdom to the foolish. And the knowledge of the unwise is like meaningless words
    22: Doctrine to the senseless is like fetters on the feet, and like chains on the right hand
    23: A foolish man lifts up his voice in laughter. But a wise man will not even laugh quietly to himself
    24: Doctrine is to the prudent like a gold ornament, and like an armband on the right arm
    25: The feet of the foolish step easily into his neighbor’s house. But an experienced man will be apprehensive in the presence of the powerful
    26: A senseless man will gaze through a window into the house. But a man who has been well-taught will stand outside
    27: It is foolish for a man to listen through the door. And a prudent man will be grieved at this disgrace
    28: The lips of the imprudent will describe senseless things. But the words of the prudent will be weighed on a balance
    29: The hearts of the foolish are in their mouths. But the mouths of the wise are with their hearts
    30: Whenever the impious curse the devil, they curse their own soul
    31: Those who whisper accusations defile their own souls, and they will be hated by all. And whoever abides with them will be hateful. The silent and understanding man will be honored

  Chapter 22.

    1: The lazy man is pelted with a dirty stone, and all will speak about his rejection
    2: The lazy man is pelted with the dung of oxen, and all who touch him will brush off their hands
    3: An undisciplined son is the shame of his father, but an undisciplined daughter will be to his degradation
    4: A prudent daughter brings an inheritance to her husband. But she who causes shame will be a disgrace to him who conceived her
    5: She who is bold shames her father and her husband, and she will not be less offensive to the impious. For she will be held in dishonor by both
    6: An untimely explanation is like music in a time of mourning. But the sharp correction and doctrine of wisdom are ever timely
    7: Whoever teaches the foolish is like someone who glues together a broken pot
    8: Whoever explains a word to one who is not listening is like someone who suddenly awakens a sleeping person from a deep sleep
    9: Whoever explains wisdom to the senseless is like one speaking to a sleeping person. And at the end of the explanation, he says: “Who is this?
    10: Weep over the dead, for his light has failed. And weep over the foolish, for his understanding has failed
    11: Weep only a little over the dead, for he is at rest
    12: But the wicked life of a wicked fool is worse than death
    13: The mourning for the dead is seven days; but for the foolish and the impious, it is all the days of their life
    14: You should not talk at length with the foolish, and you should not go with the senseless
    15: Keep yourself from him, so that you may not have problems, and so that you will not be polluted by his sin
    16: Turn away from him, and you will find rest, and you will not be discouraged by his foolishness
    17: What is heavier than lead? And what else can he be called but foolish
    18: Sand, and salt, and an iron weight are each easier to bear than an imprudent man, who is both foolish and impious
    19: A bundle of wood strapped together in the foundation of a building will not be loosened. And similar is the heart that has been strengthened by thoughtful counsel
    20: The thoughts of one who is understanding will not be corrupted by fear in any situation
    21: Just as chaff in a high place, or a wall made of mortar without stones set within, will not continue against the face of the wind
    22: so also a timid heart, and the thoughts of the senseless, will not withstand the forcefulness of fear
    23: Despite a cowardly heart, the thoughts of the foolish will not fear any situation; yet neither will one who continues always in the precepts of God
    24: He who jabs an eye produces tears. And he who jabs the heart produces understanding
    25: He who throws a stone at birds will drive them away. So also, he who accuses his friend dissolves the friendship
    26: But if you have drawn a sword against a friend, you should not despair; for there may be a way back.
    27: If you have opened a harsh mouth against a friend, you should not fear; for there may be a reconciliation. However, if there are accusations, or abuse, or arrogance, or the revealing of secrets, or a wound from deceitfulness, in all these cases, a friend will flee away
    28: Hold to faithfulness with a friend in his poverty, so that you may also rejoice in his prosperity
    29: In the time of his tribulation, remain faithful to him, so that you may also be an heir with him in his inheritance
    30: Just as the steam from an oven, or the smoke from a fire, rises up before a flame, so also do curses and insults and threats rise up before bloodshed
    31: I shall not be ashamed to greet a friend, nor shall I hide myself from his face. And if misfortunes befall me because of him, I will endure
    32: Anyone who hears of this will be wary around him
    33: Who will provide a keeper for my mouth, and a reliable seal over my lips, so that I may not fall because of them, and so that my tongue does not destroy me

  Chapter 23.

    1: Lord, Father and Ruler of my life: may you not abandon me to their counsel, nor permit me to fall by them
    2: They would impose scourges over my thoughts and over the discipline of wisdom in my heart. And they would not spare me from their ignorances, nor would they allow their own offenses to become apparent
    3: And they intend that my ignorances would increase, and my offenses be multiplied, and my sins abound. And so I would fall in the sight of my adversaries, and be rejoiced over by my enemy
    4: Lord, Father and God of my life: may you not abandon me to their plans
    5: Do not leave me with the haughtiness of my eyes. And avert all desire from me
    6: Take the desire of the body from me, and do not allow sexual desire to take hold of me, and do not permit an irreverent and senseless mind within me
    7: O sons: listen to the doctrine of my mouth. For those who observe it will not perish by the lips, nor be scandalized into wicked works
    8: A sinner is held by his own emptiness. And the arrogant and those who speak evil will be scandalized by these things
    9: Do not allow your mouth to become accustomed to swearing oaths. For in this, there are many pitfalls
    10: Truly, do not allow the naming of God to be continually in your mouth, and do not treat as if common the names of the holy ones. For you will not escape punishment by them
    11: Just as a servant, continually interrogated, will not be without a bruise, so everyone who swears oaths and takes God’s name will not be entirely free from sin
    12: A man who swears many oaths will be filled with iniquity, and scourges will not depart from his house
    13: And if he fails to fulfill it, his offense will be over him, and if he pretends he fulfilled it, he offends doubly
    14: And if he swears an oath insincerely, he will not be justified. For his house will be filled with retribution for him
    15: There is yet another kind of talk which faces death; let it not be found in the inheritance of Jacob
    16: For all these things will be taken away from the merciful, and they shall not wallow in offenses
    17: Do not allow your mouth to become accustomed to undisciplined speech. For in this, there is the sin of words
    18: When you sit in the midst of great men, remember your father and mother
    19: Otherwise, God may forget you, when you are in their sight, and then you would be repeatedly ridiculed and would suffer disgrace, and you might wish that you had never been born, and you might curse the day of your nativity
    20: The man who is accustomed to disgraceful words will not accept instruction, all the days of his life
    21: Two kinds of persons abound in sins, and a third adds wrath and perdition
    22: A desirous soul is like a burning fire, it will not be quenched, until it devours something
    23: And a man who is wicked in the desires of his flesh will not desist until he has kindled a fire
    24: To a man of fornication, all bread is sweet; he will not tire of transgression, to the very end
    25: Every man who transgresses his own bed has contempt for his own soul. And so he says: “Who can see me
    26: Darkness surrounds me, and the walls enclose me, and no one catches sight of me. Whom should I fear? The Most High will not remember my offenses.
    27: And he does not understand that God’s eye sees all things. For fear within a man such as this drives away from him both the fear of God and the eyes of those men who fear God
    28: And he does not acknowledge that the eyes of the Lord are much brighter than the sun, keeping watch over all the ways of men, even to the depths of the abyss, and gazing into the hearts of men, even to the most hidden parts
    29: For all things, before they were created, were known to the Lord God. And even after their completion, he beholds all things
    30: This man will be punished in the streets of the city, and he will be chased like a young horse. And in a place that he does not suspect, he will be captured
    31: And because he did not understand the fear of the Lord, he will be in disgrace before all men,
    32: as will be every woman, too, who abandons her husband and establishes an inheritance by marriage to another man
    33: For first, she was unbelieving of the law of the Most High. Second, she offended against her husband. Third, she fornicated by adultery, and so established her children by another man
    34: This woman will be led into the assembly, and she will be stared at by her children
    35: Her children will not take root, and her branches will not produce fruit
    36: She will leave behind her memory as a curse, and her infamy will not be wiped away
    37: And those who are left behind will acknowledge that there is nothing better than the fear of God, and that there is nothing sweeter than to have respect for the commandments of the Lord
    38: It is a great glory to follow the Lord. For length of days will be received from him

End of day 197.