Day 183:

Reading Ecclesiastes, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: You should not speak anything rashly, nor should your heart be hasty to present a word before God. For God is in heaven, and you are on earth. For this reason, let your words be few
    2: Dreams follow many worries, and in many words foolishness will be found
    3: If you have vowed anything to God, you should not delay to repay it. And whatever you have vowed, render it. But an unfaithful and foolish promise displeases him
    4: And it is much better not to make a vow, than, after a vow, not to fulfill what was promised
    5: You should not use your mouth so as to cause your flesh to sin. And you should not say, in the sight of an Angel, “There is no Providence.” For God, being angry at your words, may scatter all the works of your hands
    6: Where there are many dreams, there are many vanities and innumerable words. Yet truly, you must fear God
    7: If you see false accusations against the indigent, and violent judgments, and subverted justice in the government, do not be surprised over this situation. For those in high places have others who are higher, and there are still others, more eminent, over these
    8: But finally, there is the King who rules over the entire earth, which is subject to him
    9: A greedy man will not be satisfied by money. And whoever loves wealth will reap no fruit from it. Therefore, this, too, is emptiness
    10: Where there are many riches, there will also be many to consume these things. And how does it benefit the one who possesses, except that he discerns the wealth with his own eyes
    11: Sleep is sweet to one who works, whether he consumes little or much. But the satiation of a wealthy man will not permit him to sleep
    12: There is even another most burdensome infirmity, which I have seen under the sun: wealth kept to the harm of the owner
    13: For they are lost in a most grievous affliction. He has produced a son, who will be in the utmost destitution
    14: Just as he went forth naked from his mother’s womb, so shall he return, and he shall take nothing with him from his labors
    15: It is an utterly miserable infirmity that, in the same manner as he has arrived, so shall he return. How then does it benefit him, since he has labored for the wind
    16: All the days of his life he consumes: in darkness, and with many worries, and in distress as well as sadness
    17: And so, this has seemed good to me: that a person should eat and drink, and should enjoy the fruits of his labor, in which he has toiled under the sun, for the number of the days of his life that God has given him. For this is his portion
    18: And this is a gift from God: that every man to whom God has given wealth and resources, and to whom he has granted the ability to consume these, may enjoy his portion, and may find joy in his labors
    19: And then he will not fully remember the days of his life, because God occupies his heart with delights

  Chapter 6.

    1: There is also another evil, which I have seen under the sun, and, indeed, it is frequent among men
    2: It is a man to whom God has given wealth, and resources, and honor; and out of all that he desires, nothing is lacking to his life; yet God does not grant him the ability to consume these things, but instead a man who is a stranger will devour them. This is emptiness and a great misfortune
    3: If a man were to produce one hundred children, and to live for many years, and to attain to an age of many days, and if his soul were to make no use of the goods of his resources, and if he were lacking even a burial: concerning such a man, I declare that a miscarried child is better than he
    4: For he arrives without a purpose and he continues on into darkness, and his name shall be wiped away, into oblivion
    5: He has not seen the sun, nor recognized the difference between good and evil
    6: Even if he were to live for two thousand years, and yet not thoroughly enjoy what is good, does not each one hurry on to the same place
    7: Every labor of man is for his mouth, but his soul will not be filled
    8: What do the wise have which is more than the foolish? And what does the pauper have, except to continue on to that place, where there is life
    9: It is better to see what you desire, than to desire what you cannot know. But this, too, is emptiness and a presumption of spirit
    10: Whoever shall be in the future, his name has already been called. And it is known that he is a man and that he is not able to contend in judgment against one who is stronger than himself
    11: There are many words, and many of these, in disputes, hold much emptiness

  Chapter 7.

    1: Why is it necessary for a man to seek things that are greater than himself, when he does not know what is advantageous for himself in his life, during the number of the days of his sojourn, and while time passes by like a shadow? Or who will be able to tell him what will be in the future after him under the sun
    2: A good name is better than precious ointments, and a day of death is better than a day of birth
    3: It is better to go to a house of mourning, than to a house of feasting. For in the former, we are admonished about the end of all things, so that the living consider what may be in the future
    4: Anger is better than laughter. For through the sadness of the countenance, the soul of one who offends may be corrected
    5: The heart of the wise is a place of mourning, and the heart of the foolish is a place of rejoicing
    6: It is better to be corrected by a wise man, than to be deceived by the false praise of the foolish
    7: For, like the crackling of thorns burning under a pot, so is the laughter of the foolish. But this, too, is emptiness
    8: A false accusation troubles the wise man and saps the strength of his heart
    9: The end of a speech is better than the beginning. Patience is better than arrogance
    10: Do not be quickly moved to anger. For anger resides in the sinews of the foolish
    11: You should not say: “What do you think is the reason that the former times were better than they are now?” For this type of question is foolish
    12: Wisdom with riches is more useful and more advantageous, for those who see the sun
    13: For as wisdom protects, so also does money protect. But learning and wisdom have this much more: that they grant life to one who possesses them
    14: Consider the works of God, that no one is able to correct whomever he has despised
    15: In good times, enjoy good things, but beware of an evil time. For just as God has established the one, so also the other, in order that man may not find any just complaint against him
    16: I also saw this, in the days of my vanity: a just man perishing in his justice, and an impious man living a long time in his malice
    17: Do not try to be overly just, and do not try to be more wise than is necessary, lest you become stupid
    18: Do not act with great impiety, and do not choose to be foolish, lest you die before your time
    19: It is good for you to support a just man. Furthermore, you should not withdraw your hand from him, for whoever fears God, neglects nothing
    20: Wisdom has strengthened the wise more than ten princes of a city
    21: But there is no just man on earth, who does good and does not sin
    22: So then, do not attach your heart to every word that is spoken, lest perhaps you may hear your servant speaking ill of you
    23: For your conscience knows that you, too, have repeatedly spoken evil of others
    24: I have tested everything in wisdom. I have said: “I will be wise.” And wisdom withdrew farther from me
    25: so much more than it was before. Wisdom is very profound, so who shall reveal her
    26: I have examined all things in my soul, so that I may know, and consider, and seek out wisdom and reason, and so that I may recognize the impiety of the foolish, and the error of the imprudent
    27: And I have discovered a woman more bitter than death: she who is like the snare of a hunter, and whose heart is like a net, and whose hands are like chains. Whoever pleases God shall flee from her. But whoever is a sinner shall be seized by her
    28: Behold, Ecclesiastes said, I have discovered these things, one after another, in order that I might discover the explanatio
    29: which my soul still seeks and has not found. One man among a thousand, I have found; a woman among them all, I have not found
    30: This alone have I discovered: that God made man righteous, and yet he has adulterated himself with innumerable questions. Who is so great as the wise? And who has understood the meaning of the word

  Chapter 8.

    1: The wisdom of a man shines in his countenance, and even the expression of a most powerful man will change
    2: I heed the mouth of the king, and the commandment of an oath to God
    3: You should not hastily withdraw from his presence, nor should you remain in an evil work. For all that pleases him, he will do
    4: And his word is filled with authority. Neither is anyone able to say to him: “Why are you acting this way?
    5: Whoever keeps the commandment will not experience evil. The heart of a wise man understands the time to respond
    6: For every matter, there is a time and an opportunity, as well as many difficulties, for man
    7: For he is ignorant of the past, and he is able to know nothing of the future by means of a messenger
    8: It is not in the power of a man to prohibit the spirit, nor does he have authority over the day of death, nor is he permitted to rest when war breaks out, and neither will impiety save the impious
    9: I have considered all these things, and I have applied my heart to all the works which are being done under the sun. Sometimes one man rules over another to his own harm
    10: I have seen the impious buried. These same, while they were still living, were in the holy place, and they were praised in the city as workers of justice. But this, too, is emptiness
    11: For the sons of men perpetrate evils without any fear, because judgment is not pronounced quickly against the evil
    12: But although a sinner may do evil of himself one hundred times, and by patience still endure, I realize that it will be well with those who fear God, who revere his face
    13: So, may it not go well with the impious, and may his days not be prolonged. And let those who do not fear the face of the Lord pass away like a shadow
    14: There is also another vanity, which is done upon the earth. There are the just, to whom evils happen, as though they had done the works of the impious. And there are the impious, who are very secure, as though they possess the deeds of the just. But this, too, I judge to be a very great vanity
    15: And so, I praised rejoicing, because there was no good for a man under the sun, except to eat and drink, and to be cheerful, and because he may take nothing with him from his labor in the days of his life, which God has given to him under the sun
    16: And I applied my heart, so that I might know wisdom, and so that I might understand a disturbance that turns upon the earth: it is a man, who takes no sleep with his eyes, day and night
    17: And I understood that man is able to find no explanation for all those works of God which are done under the sun. And so, the more that he labors to seek, so much the less does he find. Yes, even if a wise man were to claim that he knows, he would not be able to discover it

End of day 183.