Day 192:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['P', '1', '2', '3']:

  Chapter P.

    1: The wisdom of many great things has been revealed to us through the law, and the prophets, and the other books that followed these. Concerning these things, Israel ought to be praised, because of doctrine and wisdom. For it is necessary, not only for those who are speaking, but even for outsiders, to be skillful, both in speaking and in writing, so as to become very learned
    2: My grandfather Jesus, after he gave himself fully to a diligent reading of the law, and the prophets, and the other books that were handed down to us by our ancestors, also wanted to write something himself, about the things that pertain to doctrine and wisdom, so that those who desire to learn and to become skillful in these things would be more and more attentive in mind, and would be strengthened to live according to the law
    3: And so, I exhort you to approach with benevolence, and to perform the reading with attentive study, and to be forbearing in these things when we may seem, while pursuing the image of wisdom, to fall short in the composition of words
    4: For the Hebrew words are deficient when they have been translated into another language.
    5: And not only these words, but also the law itself, and the prophets, and the remainder of the books, have no small difference from when they have been spoken in their own language
    6: For in the time of king Ptolemy Euergetes, in the thirty-eighth year after I had arrived in Egypt, after I had been there for a long time, I found, left behind there, books with a doctrine neither small nor contemptible
    7: And so I considered it to be both good and necessary for me to apply some significant diligence and labor in order to translate this book
    8: Then, after much attentiveness to doctrine over a length of time, I brought to a close the things being considered, so as to offer this book for those who are willing to apply their mind and to learn how they ought to conduct their way of life
    9: for those who have decided to form their life in accord with the law of the Lord

  Chapter 1.

    1: All wisdom is from the Lord God, and has always been with him, and is before all time
    2: Who has numbered the sand of the sea, and the drops of the rain, and the days of the world? Who has measured the height of heaven, and the breadth of the earth, and the depth of the abyss
    3: Who has examined the wisdom of God, which precedes all things
    4: Wisdom was created before all things, and the understanding of prudence is before all time
    5: The Word of God on high is the source of wisdom, whose steps are eternal commandments
    6: To whom has the root of wisdom been revealed, and who has recognized her astuteness
    7: To whom has the discipline of wisdom been revealed and made manifest? And who has understood the multiplicity of her steps
    8: The most high omnipotent Creator is One, and he is the mighty King, and he is exceedingly to be feared, sitting upon his throne, and he is the sovereign God
    9: He created wisdom through the Holy Spirit, and he saw her, and numbered her, and measured her
    10: And he poured her over all his works, and over all flesh, to the extent of his favor, and he has offered her to those who love him
    11: The fear of the Lord is glory, and honor, and rejoicing, and a crown of exultation
    12: The fear of the Lord will delight the heart, and will give joy and gladness and length of days
    13: It will be well, in the very end, for him who fears the Lord, and on the day that he passes away, he will be blessed
    14: The love of God is honorable wisdom
    15: And those to whom she will appear for their consideration love her because of what they see and know of her great works
    16: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and was created with the faithful in the womb, and walks with elect women, and is known by the just and the faithful
    17: The fear of the Lord is the sanctity of knowledge
    18: Sanctity will guard and justify the heart, and will bestow happiness and joy
    19: It will be well with him who fears the Lord, and at the consummation of his days, he will be blessed
    20: To fear God is the fullness of wisdom, and it is a fullness from its fruits
    21: She will fill her entire house from her offspring, and storehouses from her treasures
    22: The fear of the Lord is the crown of wisdom, the completion of peace, and the fruit of salvation
    23: And the fear of the Lord has seen and numbered wisdom; but both are gifts of God
    24: Wisdom will distribute knowledge and an understanding of prudence; and she lifts up the glory of those who hold to her
    25: The root of wisdom is to fear the Lord, and its branches are long-lived
    26: In the treasures of wisdom is understanding and the sanctity of knowledge. But to sinners, wisdom is an abomination
    27: The fear of the Lord expels sin
    28: For he who is without fear is not able to be justified. For the disposition of his spirit is his undoing
    29: Those who are patient will suffer for a brief time, and afterwards, happiness will return
    30: A noble mind will hide his words for a brief time, and then the lips of many will declare his understanding
    31: Among the treasures of wisdom is the outward sign of discipline
    32: But to those who sin, the worship of God is an abomination
    33: Son, if you desire wisdom, observe justice, and then God will offer her to you
    34: For the fear of the Lord is wisdom and discipline.
    35: And what pleases him is faith and meekness. And so shall he complete his treasures
    36: You should not be incredulous to the fear of the Lord. And you should not draw close to him with a duplicitous heart
    37: You should not be a hypocrite in the sight of men. And you should not scandalize with your lips
    38: Attend to these things, otherwise you may fall and bring dishonor to your soul
    39: And then God may uncover your secrets, and he may cast you down forcefully in the midst of the congregation
    40: For you drew near to the Lord wickedly, and your heart was filled with deceit and falseness

  Chapter 2.

    1: Son, when you apply yourself to the service of God, stand in justice and in fear, and prepare your soul for temptation
    2: Humble your heart, and persevere. Incline your ear, and accept words of understanding. And you should not hurry away in the time of distress
    3: Endure steadfastly for God. Join yourself to God, and persevere, so that your life may increase in the very end
    4: Accept everything that will happen to you, and persevere in your sorrow, and have patience in your humiliation
    5: For gold and silver are tested in fire, yet truly, acceptable men are tested in the furnace of humiliation
    6: Believe God, and he will restore you to health. And straighten your way, and hope in him. Observe his fear, and grow old in it
    7: You who fear the Lord, wait for his mercy. And do not turn away from him, lest you fall
    8: You who fear the Lord, believe in him. And your reward will not be taken away
    9: You who fear the Lord, hope in him. And mercy will approach you, to your delight
    10: You who fear the Lord, love him. And your hearts will be illuminated
    11: My sons, consider the nations of men, and know that not one of them hoped in the Lord and was confounded
    12: For who has remained in his commandment and been abandoned? Or who has called upon him, and yet he despised him
    13: For God is upright and merciful, and he will forgive sins in the day of tribulation. And he is the Protector to all those who seek him in truth
    14: Woe to the duplicitous heart, and to the wicked lips, and to the hands that do evil, and to the sinner who walks the earth by two ways
    15: Woe to the dissolute in heart, who do not trust God! For, as a result, they will not be protected by him
    16: Woe to those who have lost endurance, and who have abandoned upright ways, and who have turned aside to depraved ways
    17: And what will they do when the Lord begins to examine them
    18: Those who fear the Lord will not be unbelieving toward his Word. And those who love him will keep to his way
    19: Those who fear the Lord will seek the things that are well-pleasing to him. And those who love him will be filled with his law
    20: Those who fear the Lord will prepare their hearts, and they will sanctify their souls in his sight
    21: Those who fear the Lord keep his commandments, and they will have patience even until his examination
    22: saying: “If we do not do penance, then we will fall into the hands of the Lord, and not into the hands of men.
    23: For according to his greatness, so also is his mercy with him

  Chapter 3.

    1: The sons of wisdom are the Church of the just: and their generation is obedience and love
    2: Sons, listen to the judgment of your father, and act accordingly, so that you may be saved
    3: For God has honored the father in the sons, and, when seeking the judgment of the mother, he has confirmed it in the children
    4: He who loves God will plead with him on behalf of sins, and will keep himself away from sin, and will be heeded in the prayers of his days
    5: And, like one who stores up treasure, so also is he who honors his mother
    6: He who honors his father will find happiness in his own children, and he will be heeded in the day of his prayer
    7: He who honors his father will live a long life. And he who obeys his father will be a refreshment to his mother
    8: He who fears the Lord honors his parents, and he will serve them as masters, for it is they who conceived him
    9: In word and deed, and in all things, honor your father with patience
    10: so that a blessing may come to you from him, and so that his blessing may remain to the very end
    11: The blessing of the father strengthens the houses of the sons; but the curse of the mother uproots even its foundation
    12: Do not boast in the disgrace of your father; for his shame is not your glory
    13: For the glory of a man is from the honor of his father, and a father without honor is a discredit to the son
    14: Son, support your father in his old age, and do not grieve him in his life
    15: And if his mind should fail, show kindness; and do not spurn him when you are in your strength. For almsgiving to the father will never be forgotten
    16: For even in return for the sin of the mother, good will be repaid to you
    17: And you will be built up in justice, and you will be remembered in the day of tribulation. And your sins will dissolve like ice in warm weather
    18: What an evil form has he who forsakes his father! And whoever exasperates his mother is accursed by God
    19: Son, perform your works in meekness, and you shall be loved beyond the glory of men
    20: However great you may be, humble yourself in all things, and you will find grace in the presence of God
    21: For only the power of God is great, and he is honored by the humble
    22: You should not seek the things that are too high for you, and you should not examine the things that are beyond your ability. But as for the things that God has entrusted to you, consider these always. But you should not be curious in too many of his works
    23: For it is not necessary for you to see with your own eyes the things that are hidden
    24: In unnecessary matters, do not choose to be an examiner of many different things, and you should not be curious about too many of his works
    25: For many things have been revealed to you, beyond the understanding of men
    26: Yet uncertainty in these things has also undermined many persons and has detained their minds in vanity
    27: A hardened heart will have evil in the very end, and he who loves peril will perish in it
    28: A heart advancing in two directions will not have success, and the depraved heart will be scandalized in this way
    29: A wicked heart will be burdened with sorrows, and a sinner will add further sins
    30: The synagogue of the arrogant will not be healed. For the stalk of sinfulness will take root in them, and it will not be understood
    31: The heart of the wise is understood by wisdom, and a good ear will listen to wisdom with all its desire
    32: A wise and understanding heart will abstain from sins, and will have success in works of justice
    33: Water extinguishes a burning fire, and almsgiving withstands sins
    34: And God is the watchman for him who repays a kindness. He remembers him afterwards, and in the time of his fall, he will find a firm support

End of day 192.