Day 116:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['13', '14']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And so, the elder Tobit, opening his mouth, blessed the Lord, and he said: “O Lord, you are great in eternity and your kingdom is with all ages
    2: For you scourge, and you save. You lead down to the grave, and you bring up again. And there is no one who can escape from your hand
    3: Confess to the Lord, O sons of Israel, and praise him in the sight of the nations
    4: For, indeed, he has dispersed you among the Gentiles, who are ignorant of him, that you may proclaim his wonders, and that you may cause them to know that there is no other almighty God, except him
    5: He has chastised us because of our iniquities, and he will save us because of his mercy
    6: Therefore, look upon what he has done for us, and, with fear and trembling, confess to him. And extol the King of all ages with your works
    7: But as for me, I will confess him in the land of my captivity. For he has revealed his majesty within a sinful nation
    8: And so, be converted, you sinners, and do justice in the presence of God, believing that he will act in his mercy toward you
    9: But I and my soul will rejoice in him
    10: Bless the Lord, all you his elect. Keep days of rejoicing, and confess to him
    11: O Jerusalem, the city of God, the Lord has chastised you for the works of your hands
    12: Confess to the Lord with your good things, and bless the God of all ages, so that he may rebuild his tabernacle in you, and he may recall all the captives to you, and you may be glad in all ages and forever
    13: You will shine with a splendid light, and all the ends of the earth will adore by you
    14: Nations from far away will come to you, bringing gifts. And in you, they shall adore the Lord, and they will hold your land in sanctification
    15: For they will invoke the Great Name in you
    16: Those who despise you will be cursed, and all those who blaspheme by you will be condemned, and those who build you up will be blessed
    17: But you will rejoice in your sons, because they will all be blessed, and they will be gathered together for the Lord
    18: Blessed are all those who love you and who rejoice in your peace
    19: Bless the Lord, O my soul, for the Lord our God has freed Jerusalem, his city, from every one of her tribulations
    20: Happy will I be, if any of my offspring will be left to see the brightness of Jerusalem
    21: The gates of Jerusalem will be built from sapphire and emerald, and all its walls will be surrounded with precious stones
    22: All its streets will be paved with stones, white and clean. And ‘Alleluia’ will be sung throughout its neighborhoods
    23: Blessed be the Lord, who has exalted it, and may he reign over it, forever and ever. Amen.

  Chapter 14.

    1: And the sermon of Tobit was completed. And after Tobit received his sight, he lived forty-two years, and he saw the sons of his grandchildren
    2: And so, having completed one hundred and two years, he was buried honorably at Nineveh
    3: For he was fifty-six years old, when he lost the light of his eyes, and he was sixty years old, when he truly received it again
    4: And, in truth, the remainder of his life was in gladness. And so, with the good accomplishment of the fear of God, he departed in peace
    5: But, in the hour of his death, he called to himself his son Tobias, along with his sons, the seven youths who were his grandsons, and he said to them
    6: “Nineveh will pass away soon. For the word of the Lord goes forward, and our brothers, who have been dispersed away from the land of Israel, shall return to it
    7: Thus its deserted land will be entirely filled again. And the house of God, which was burned like incense within it, will be rebuilt again. And all those who fear God will return there
    8: And the Gentiles will relinquish their idols, and they will enter into Jerusalem, and they will dwell in it
    9: And all the kings of the earth will rejoice in it, adoring the King of Israel
    10: Therefore, my sons, listen to your father. Serve the Lord in truth, and seek to do the things that please him
    11: And command your sons, so that they may accomplish justice and almsgiving, and so that they may be mindful of God and may bless him at all times, in truth and with all their strength
    12: And now, sons, listen to me, and do not remain here. But, on whatever day you will bury your mother near me in one sepulcher, from that time, direct your steps to leave this place
    13: For I see that its iniquity will bring about its end.
    14: And it happened that, after the death of his mother, Tobias withdrew from Nineveh, with his wife, and sons, and sons of sons, and he was returned to his father-in-law
    15: And he found them unharmed in a good old age. And he took care of them, and he closed their eyes. And all the inheritance of the house of Raguel passed to him. And he saw the sons of his sons to the fifth generation
    16: And, having completed ninety-nine years in the fear of the Lord, with joy, they buried him
    17: But all his family and all his lineage continued with a good life and in holy conversation, so that they were acceptable both to God and to men, as well as to everyone who dwelt in the land

End of day 116.