Day 135:

Reading Job, chapters ['41', '42']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: I will not rouse him, as the cruel would do, for who is able to withstand my countenance
    2: Who has given to me beforehand, so that I should repay him? All things that are under heaven are mine
    3: I will not spare him, nor his powerful words and counterfeit attempts at supplication
    4: Who can reveal the beauty of his garment? And who can enter the middle of his mouth
    5: Who can open the doors of his face? I gave fear to the circle of his teeth
    6: His body is like shields fused together, like dense scales pressed over one another
    7: One is joined to another, and not even air can pass between them
    8: They adhere to one another, and they hold themselves in place and will not be separated
    9: His sneezing has the brilliance of fire, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning
    10: Lamps proceed from his mouth, like torches of fire burning brightly
    11: Smoke passes out of his nostrils, like a pot that is heated and boiling
    12: His breath causes coal to burn, and a flame comes forth from his mouth
    13: Strength dwells in his neck, and destitution goes before his presence
    14: The parts of his body work in harmony together. He will send lightning bolts against him, and they will not be carried to another place
    15: His heart will be as hard as a stone and as dense as a blacksmith’s anvil
    16: When he will be raised up, the angels will be afraid, and, because they are terrified, they will purify themselves
    17: When a sword catches up with him, it will not be able to settle in, nor a spear, nor a breastplate
    18: For he will consider iron as if it were chaff, and brass as if it were rotten wood
    19: The archer will not cause him to flee; the stones of the sling have been turned into stubble for him
    20: He will treat the hammer as if it were stubble, and he will ridicule those who brandish the spear
    21: The beams of the sun will be under him, and he will dispense gold to them as if it were clay
    22: He will make the depths of the sea boil like a pot, and he will set it to bubble just as ointments do
    23: A path will shine after him; he will esteem the abyss as if it were weakening with age
    24: There is no power on the earth that is being compared to him, who has been made so that he fears no one
    25: He sees every prominent thing; he is king over all the sons of arrogance

  Chapter 42.

    1: Then Job, responding to the Lord, said
    2: I know that you are able to do all things, and that no thoughts are hidden from you
    3: So, who is it that would disguise a lack of knowledge as counsel? Therefore, I have been speaking foolishly, about things whose measure exceeds my knowledge
    4: Listen, and I will speak. I will question you, and you may answer me
    5: By paying attention with the ear, I have heard you, but now my eye sees you
    6: Therefore, I find myself reprehensible, and I will do penance in embers and ashes
    7: But after the Lord had finished speaking these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Themanite: My wrath has been kindled against you, and against your two friends, because you have not been speaking correctly in my eyes, as my servant Job has done
    8: Therefore, have seven bulls and seven rams brought to you, and go to my servant Job, and offer these as a holocaust for yourselves. But also, my servant Job will pray for you; I will accept his face, so that foolishness will not be imputed to you. For you have not been speaking correctly about me, as my servant Job has done
    9: So Eliphaz the Themanite, and Baldad the Suhite, and Zophar the Naamathite departed, and they did just as the Lord had spoken to them, and the Lord accepted the face of Job
    10: Likewise, the Lord was moved by the repentance of Job, when he prayed for his friends. And the Lord gave to Job twice as much as he had before
    11: Yet all his brethren came to him, and all his sisters, and everyone who had known him before, and they ate bread with him in his house. They also shook their heads over him and comforted him, because of all the bad things that God had inflicted on him. And each one of them gave him one female sheep, and one earring of gold
    12: And the Lord blessed the latter end of Job even more than his beginning. And he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand pairs of oxen, and a thousand she-donkeys
    13: And he had seven sons and three daughters
    14: And he called the name of one, Daylight, and the name of the second, Cinnamon, and the name of the third, Horn of Cosmetics
    15: And, in the whole world, there were not found women so beautiful as the daughters of Job. And so their father gave them an inheritance along with their brothers
    16: But Job lived long after these events, for a hundred and forty years, and he saw his children, and his children’s children, all the way to the fourth generation, and he died an old man and full of days

End of day 135.