Day 161:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['101', '102', '103', '104']:

  Chapter 101.

    1: The prayer of the pauper, when he was anxious, and so he poured out his petition in the sight of the Lord
    2: O Lord, hear my prayer, and let my outcry reach you
    3: Do not turn your face away from me. In whatever day that I am in trouble, incline your ear to me. In whatever day that I will call upon you, heed me quickly
    4: For my days have faded away like smoke, and my bones have dried out like firewood
    5: I have been cut down like hay, and my heart has withered, for I had forgotten to eat my bread
    6: Before the voice of my groaning, my bone has adhered to my flesh
    7: I have become like a pelican in solitude. I have become like a night raven in a house
    8: I have kept vigil, and I have become like a solitary sparrow on a roof
    9: All day long my enemies reproached me, and those who praised me swore oaths against me
    10: For I chewed on ashes like bread, and I mixed weeping into my drink
    11: By the face of your anger and indignation, you lifted me up and threw me down
    12: My days have declined like a shadow, and I have dried out like hay
    13: But you, O Lord, endure for eternity, and your memorial is from generation to generation
    14: You will rise up and take pity on Zion, for it is time for its mercy, for the time has come
    15: For its stones have pleased your servants, and they will take pity on its land
    16: And the Gentiles will fear your name, O Lord, and all the kings of the earth your glory
    17: For the Lord has built up Zion, and he will be seen in his glory
    18: He has noticed the prayer of the humble, and he has not despised their petition
    19: Let these things be written in another generation, and the people who will be created will praise the Lord
    20: For he has gazed from his high sanctuary. From heaven, the Lord has beheld the earth
    21: So may he hear the groans of those in shackles, in order that he may release the sons of the slain
    22: So may they announce the name of the Lord in Zion and his praise in Jerusalem
    23: while the people convene, along with kings, in order that they may serve the Lord
    24: He responded to him in the way of his virtue: Declare to me the brevity of my days
    25: Do not call me back in the middle of my days: your years are from generation to generation
    26: In the beginning, O Lord, you founded the earth. And the heavens are the work of your hands
    27: They will perish, but you remain. And all will grow old like a garment. And, like a blanket, you will change them, and they will be changed
    28: Yet you are ever yourself, and your years will not decline
    29: The sons of your servants will live, and their offspring will be guided aright in every age

  Chapter 102.

    1: To David himself. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and bless his holy name, all that is within me
    2: Bless the Lord, O my soul, and do not forget all his recompenses
    3: He forgives all your iniquities. He heals all your infirmities
    4: He redeems your life from destruction. He crowns you with mercy and compassion
    5: He satisfies your desire with good things. Your youth will be renewed like that of the eagle
    6: The Lord accomplishes mercies, and his judgment is for all who patiently endure injuries
    7: He has made his ways known to Moses, his will to the sons of Israel
    8: The Lord is compassionate and merciful, patient and full of mercy
    9: He will not be angry forever, and he will not threaten for eternity
    10: He has not dealt with us according to our sins, and he has not repaid us according to our iniquities
    11: For according to the height of the heavens above the earth, so has he reinforced his mercy toward those who fear him
    12: As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our iniquities from us
    13: As a father is compassionate to his sons, so has the Lord been compassionate to those who fear him
    14: For he knows our form. He has called to mind that we are dust
    15: Man: his days are like hay. Like the flower of the field, so will he flourish
    16: For the spirit in him will pass away, and it will not remain, and he will know his place no longer
    17: But the mercy of the Lord is from eternity, and even unto eternity, upon those who fear him. And his justice is with the sons of the sons
    18: with those who serve his covenant and have been mindful of his commandments by doing them
    19: The Lord has prepared his throne in heaven, and his kingdom will rule over all
    20: Bless the Lord, all you his Angels: powerful in virtue, doing his word, in order to heed the voice of his discourse
    21: Bless the Lord, all his hosts: his ministers who do his will
    22: Bless the Lord, all his works: in every place of his dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul

  Chapter 103.

    1: To David himself. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are exceedingly great. You have clothed yourself with confession and beauty
    2: you are dressed with light like a garment, while you stretch out heaven like a tent
    3: You cover its heights with water. You set the clouds as your stairs. You walk upon the wings of the winds
    4: You make your Angels a breath of life, and your ministers a burning fire
    5: You founded the earth upon its stable base. It will not be bent from age to age
    6: The abyss, like a garment, is its clothing. The waters will remain standing above the mountains
    7: At your rebuke, they will flee. At the voice of your thunder, they will dread
    8: The mountains ascend, and the plains descend, to the place which you have founded for them
    9: You have set a limit that they will not cross. And they will not return to cover the earth
    10: You spring forth fountains in steep valleys. The waters will cross through the midst of the mountains
    11: All the wild beasts of the field will drink. The wild donkeys will anticipate in their thirst
    12: Above them, the flying things of the air will dwell. From the midst of the rocks, they will utter voices
    13: You irrigate the mountains from your heights. The earth will be satiated from the fruit of your works
    14: producing grass for cattle and herbs for the service of men. So may you draw bread from the earth
    15: and wine, in order to cheer the heart of man. Then he may gladden his face with oil, and bread will confirm the heart of man
    16: The trees of the field will be saturated, along with the cedars of Lebanon, which he planted
    17: There, the sparrows will make their nests. The leader of them is the house of the heron
    18: The heights of the hills are for the deer; the rock is a refuge for the hedgehog
    19: He has made the moon for seasons; the sun knows its setting
    20: You appointed darkness, and it has become night; all the beasts of the forest will cross through it
    21: The young lions will roar, while searching for and seizing their meal from God
    22: The sun arose, and they were gathered together; and in their dens, they will lie down together
    23: Man will go forth to his work and to his activities, until the evening
    24: How great are your works, O Lord! You have made all things in wisdom. The earth has been filled with your possessions
    25: This sea is great and its hands are spacious. There are creeping things without number: the small animals with the great
    26: There, the ships will pass by this sea-serpent that you have formed to mock them
    27: All these expect you to give them food in due time
    28: What you give to them, they will gather. When you open your hand, they will all be filled with goodness
    29: But if you turn your face away, they will be disturbed. You will take away their breath, and they will fail, and they will return to their dust
    30: You will send forth your Spirit, and they will be created. And you will renew the face of the earth
    31: May the glory of the Lord be for all ages. The Lord will rejoice in his works
    32: He considers the earth, and he makes it tremble. He touches the mountains, and they smoke
    33: I will sing to the Lord with my life. I will sing psalms to my God, as long as I am
    34: May my speech be pleasing to him. Truly, I will take delight in the Lord
    35: Let sinners fade away from the earth, along with the unjust, so that they may not be. Bless the Lord, O my soul

  Chapter 104.

    1: Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, and invoke his name. Announce his works among the nations
    2: Sing to him, and sing psalms to him. Describe all his wonders
    3: Be praised in his holy name. Let the heart of those who seek the Lord rejoice
    4: Seek the Lord, and be confirmed. Seek his face always
    5: Remember his miracles, which he has done, his portents and the judgments of his mouth
    6: you offspring of Abraham his servant, you sons of Jacob his elect
    7: He is the Lord our God. His judgments are throughout the entire earth
    8: He has remembered his covenant for all ages: the word that he entrusted to a thousand generations
    9: which he assigned to Abraham, and his oath to Isaac
    10: And he stationed the same for Jacob with a precept, and for Israel with an eternal testament
    11: saying: To you, I will give the land of Canaan, the allotment of your inheritance
    12: Though they may have been but a small number, very few and foreigners there
    13: and though they passed from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people
    14: he allowed no man to harm them, and he reproved kings on their behalf
    15: Do not be willing to touch my Christ, and do not be willing to malign my prophets
    16: And he called a famine upon the land, and he crushed every foundation of the bread
    17: He sent a man before them: Joseph, who had been sold as a slave
    18: They humbled his feet in shackles; the iron pierced his soul
    19: until his word arrived. The eloquence of the Lord inflamed him
    20: The king sent and released him; he was the ruler of the people, and he dismissed him
    21: He established him as master of his house and ruler of all his possessions
    22: so that he might instruct his princes as himself, and teach his elders prudence
    23: And Israel entered into Egypt, and Jacob became a sojourner in the land of Ham
    24: And he helped his people greatly, and he strengthened them over their enemies
    25: He turned their heart to hate his people, and to deal deceitfully with his servants
    26: He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, the one whom he chose
    27: He placed with them signs of his word, and portents in the land of Ham
    28: He sent darkness and made it conceal, and he did not afflict them with his speech
    29: He turned their waters into blood, and he slaughtered their fish
    30: Their land brought forth frogs, even in the inner chambers of their kings
    31: He spoke, and there came forth common flies and gnats, in every region
    32: He gave them a shower of hail and a burning fire, in the same land
    33: And he struck their vineyards and their fig trees, and he crushed the trees of their region
    34: He spoke, and the locust came forth, and the caterpillar, of which there was no number
    35: And it devoured all the grass in their land, and it consumed all the fruit of their land
    36: And he struck all the first-born in their land, the first-fruits of all their labor
    37: And he led them out with silver and gold, and there was not an infirm one among their tribes
    38: Egypt was joyful at their departure, for the fear of them lay heavy upon them
    39: He spread a cloud for their protection, and a fire, to give them light through the night
    40: They petitioned, and the quail came; and he satisfied them with the bread of heaven
    41: He ruptured the rock and the waters flowed: rivers gushed in the dry land
    42: For he had called to mind his holy word, which he kept near to his servant Abraham
    43: And he led forth his people in exultation, and his elect in rejoicing
    44: And he gave them the regions of the Gentiles, and they possessed the labors of the peoples
    45: so that they might observe his justifications, and inquire about his law

End of day 161.