Day 155:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['77', '78', '79', '80']:

  Chapter 77.

    1: The understanding of Asaph. O my people, attend to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth
    2: I will open my mouth in parables. I will speak about concepts that are from the beginning
    3: We have heard and known such great things, as our fathers have described to us
    4: These things have not been hidden from their sons in any generation: declaring the praises of the Lord, and his virtues, and the wonders that he has done
    5: And he has received testimony with Jacob, and he has set a law within Israel. Such great things, he has commanded our fathers, so as to make these things known to their sons
    6: so that another generation might know them, and so that the sons, who will be born and who will grow up, shall describe them to their sons
    7: So then, may they put their hope in God, and may they not forget the works of God, and may they seek his commandments
    8: May they not become like their fathers, a perverse and exasperating generation: a generation that does not straighten their heart and whose spirit is not trustworthy with God
    9: The sons of Ephraim, who bend and shoot the bow, have been turned back in the day of battle
    10: They have not kept the covenant of God. And they were not willing to walk in his law
    11: And they have been forgetful of his benefits, and of his miracle, which he revealed to them
    12: He performed miracles in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Tanis
    13: He broke the sea and he led them through. And he stationed the waters, as if in a vessel
    14: And he led them with a cloud by day, and with illumination by fire throughout the night
    15: He broke through the rock in the wasteland, and he gave them to drink, as if from the great abyss
    16: He brought forth water from the rock, and he conducted the waters, as if they were rivers
    17: And yet, they continued to sin against him. In a waterless place, they provoked the Most High with resentment
    18: And they tempted God in their hearts, by asking for food according to their desires
    19: And they spoke badly about God. They said, “Would God be able to prepare a table in the desert
    20: He struck the rock, and so waters flowed and the torrents flooded, but would even he be able to provide bread, or provide a table, for his people?
    21: Therefore, the Lord heard, and he was dismayed, and a fire was kindled within Jacob, and an anger ascended into Israel
    22: For they neither put their trust in God, nor did they hope in his salvation
    23: And he commanded the clouds from above, and he opened the doors of heaven
    24: And he rained down manna upon them to eat, and he gave them the bread of heaven
    25: Man ate the bread of Angels. He sent them provisions in abundance
    26: He transferred the south wind from heaven, and, in his virtue, he brought in the Southwest wind
    27: And he rained down flesh upon them, as if it were dust, and feathered birds, as if they were the sand of the sea
    28: And they fell down in the midst of their camp, encircling their tabernacles
    29: And they ate until they were greatly satisfied, and he brought to them according to their desires
    30: They were not cheated out of what they wanted. Their food was still in their mouth
    31: and then the wrath of God came upon them. And he slew the fat ones among them, and he impeded the elect of Israel
    32: In all these things, they continued to sin, and they were not trustworthy with his miracles
    33: And their days faded away into vanity, and their years with haste
    34: When he slew them, then they sought him. And they returned, and they drew near to him in the early morning
    35: And they were mindful that God is their helper and that the Most High God is their redeemer
    36: And they chose him with their mouth, and then they lied to him with their tongue
    37: For their heart was not upright with him, nor have they been living faithfully in his covenant
    38: Yet he is merciful, and he will pardon their sins. And he will not destroy them. And he has abundantly turned aside his own wrath. And he did not enflame his wrath entirely
    39: And he remembered that they are flesh: with a spirit that goes forth and does not return
    40: How often did they provoke him in the desert and stir him to wrath in a waterless place
    41: And they turned back and tempted God, and they exasperated the Holy One of Israel
    42: They did not remember his hand, in the day that he redeemed them from the hand of the one troubling them
    43: Thus, he positioned his signs in Egypt and his wonders in the field of Tanis
    44: And he turned their rivers into blood, along with their rain showers, so that they could not drink
    45: He sent among them the common fly, and it devoured them, and the frog, and it scattered them
    46: And he gave up their fruits to mold and their labors to the locust
    47: And he slew their vineyards with hail and their mulberry trees with severe frost
    48: And he delivered their cattle to the hail and their possessions to fire
    49: And he sent the wrath of his indignation among them: indignation and wrath and tribulation, sent forth by evil angels
    50: He made way for the path of his anger. He did not spare their souls from death. And he enclosed their beasts of burden in death
    51: And he struck all the first-born in the land of Egypt: the first-fruits of all their labor in the tabernacles of Ham
    52: And he took away his own people like sheep, and he led them through the wilderness like a flock
    53: And he led them out in hope, and they did not fear. And the sea covered their enemies
    54: And he led them to the mountain of his sanctification: the mountain that his right hand had acquired. And he cast out the Gentiles before their face. And he divided their land by lot to them, with a line of distribution
    55: And he caused the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tabernacles
    56: Yet they tempted and aggravated God Most High, and they did not keep his testaments
    57: And they turned themselves aside, and they did not serve the covenant. In the same manner as their fathers, they were turned backwards, like a crooked bow
    58: They impelled him to anger on their hills, and they provoked him to rivalry with their graven images
    59: God listened, and he spurned them, and he reduced Israel greatly, almost to nothing
    60: And he rejected the tabernacle of Shiloh, his tabernacle where he had dwelt among men
    61: And he delivered their virtue into captivity, and their beauty into the hands of the enemy
    62: And he enclosed his people with the sword, and he spurned his inheritance
    63: Fire consumed their young men, and their virgins were not lamented
    64: Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows did not weep
    65: And the Lord was awakened, as if out of sleep, and like a powerful man impaired by wine
    66: And he struck his enemies on the back. He gave them over to everlasting disgrace
    67: And he rejected the tabernacle of Joseph, and he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim
    68: But he chose the tribe of Judah: mount Zion, which he loved
    69: And he built up his sanctuary, like a single-horned beast, in the land that he founded for all ages
    70: And he chose his servant David, and he took him from the flocks of the sheep: he received him from following the ewes with their young
    71: in order to pasture Jacob his servant and Israel his inheritance
    72: And he fed them with the innocence of his heart. And he led them with the understanding of his hands

  Chapter 78.

    1: A Psalm of Asaph. O God, the Gentiles have entered into your inheritance; they have polluted your holy temple. They have set Jerusalem as a place to tend fruit trees
    2: They have placed the dead bodies of your servants as food for the birds of the sky, the flesh of your saints for the beasts of the earth
    3: They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there was no one who would bury them
    4: We have become a disgrace to our neighbors, an object of ridicule and mockery to those who are around us
    5: How long, O Lord? Will you be angry until the end? Will your zeal be kindled like a fire
    6: Pour out your wrath among the Gentiles, who have not known you, and upon the kingdoms that have not invoked your name
    7: For they have devoured Jacob, and they have desolated his place
    8: Do not remember our iniquities of the past. May your mercies quickly intercept us, for we have become exceedingly poor
    9: Help us, O God, our Savior. And free us, Lord, for the glory of your name. And forgive us our sins for the sake of your name
    10: Let them not say among the Gentiles, “Where is their God?” And may your name become known among the nations before our eyes. For the retribution of your servants’ blood, which has been poured out
    11: may the groans of the shackled enter before you. According to the greatness of your arm, take possession of the sons of those who have been killed
    12: And repay our neighbors sevenfold within their sinews. It is the reproach of the same ones who brought reproach against you, O Lord
    13: But we are your people and the sheep of your pasture: we will give thanks to you in all ages. From generation to generation, we will announce your praise

  Chapter 79.

    1: Unto the end. For those who will be changed. The testimony of Asaph. A Psalm
    2: The One who reigns over Israel: Be attentive. For you lead Joseph like a sheep. The One who sits upon the cherubim: Shine fort
    3: in the presence of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. Awaken your power and draw near, so as to accomplish our salvation
    4: Convert us, O God. And reveal your face, and we will be saved
    5: O Lord, God of hosts, how long will you be angry over the prayer of your servant
    6: How long will you feed us the bread of tears, and give us to drink a full measure of tears
    7: You have set us as a contradiction to our neighbors. And our enemies have ridiculed us
    8: O God of hosts, convert us. And reveal your face, and we will be saved
    9: You have transferred a vineyard from Egypt. You have cast out the Gentiles, and planted it
    10: You were the leader of the journey in its sight. You planted its roots, and it filled the earth
    11: Its shadow covered the hills, and its branches covered the cedars of God
    12: It extended its new branches even to the sea, and its new seedlings even to the river
    13: So then, why have you destroyed its walls, so that all those who pass by the way gather its grapes
    14: The wild boar of the forest has trampled it, and a single wild beast has laid waste to it
    15: Turn back, O God of hosts. Look down from heaven, and see, and visit this vineyard
    16: and complete what your right hand has planted, and look upon the son of man, whom you have confirmed for yourself
    17: Whatever has been set on fire and dug under will perish at the rebuke of your countenance
    18: Let your hand be over the man on your right, and over the son of man, whom you have confirmed for yourself
    19: For we do not depart from you, and you will revive us. And we will invoke your name
    20: O Lord, God of hosts, convert us. And reveal your face, and we will be saved

  Chapter 80.

    1: Unto the end. For the wine and oil presses. A Psalm of Asaph himself
    2: Exult before God our helper. Sing joyfully to the God of Jacob
    3: Take up a psalm, and bring forth the timbrel: a pleasing Psalter with stringed instruments
    4: Sound the trumpet at the new moon, on the noteworthy day of your solemnity
    5: for it is a precept in Israel and a judgment for the God of Jacob
    6: He set it as a testimony with Joseph, when he went out of the land of Egypt. He heard a tongue that he did not know
    7: He turned the burdens away from his back. His hands had been a slave to baskets
    8: You called upon me in tribulation, and I freed you. I heard you within the hidden tempest. I tested you with waters of contradiction
    9: My people, listen and I will call you to testify. If, O Israel, you will pay heed to me
    10: then there will be no new god among you, nor will you adore a foreign god
    11: For I am the Lord your God, who led you out of the land of Egypt. Widen your mouth, and I will fill it
    12: But my people did not hear my voice, and Israel was not attentive to me
    13: And so, I sent them away, according to the desires of their heart. They will go forth according to their own inventions
    14: If my people had heard me, if Israel had walked in my ways
    15: I would have humbled their enemies, as if it were nothing, and I would have sent my hand upon those who troubled them
    16: The enemies of the Lord have lied to him, and their time will come, in every age
    17: And he fed them from the fat of the grain, and he saturated them with honey from the rock

End of day 155.