Day 294:

Reading Mark, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And as he was departing from the temple, one of his disciples said to him, “Teacher, observe these fine stones and fine structures.
    2: And in response, Jesus said to him: “Do you see all these great buildings? There shall not be left stone upon stone, which is not torn down.
    3: And as he sat at the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew questioned him privately
    4: “Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things will begin to be fulfilled?
    5: And Jesus, answering, began to say to them: “See to it that no one leads you astray
    6: For many will come in my name, saying, ‘For I am he,’ and they will lead many astray
    7: But when you will have heard of wars and rumors of wars, you should not be afraid. For these things must be, but the end is not so soon
    8: For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom over kingdom, and there shall be earthquakes in various places, and famines. These are but the beginning of the sorrows
    9: But see to yourselves. For they will hand you over to councils, and in the synagogues you will be beaten, and you shall stand before governors and kings because of me, as a testimony for them
    10: And the Gospel must first be preached to all nations
    11: And when they have seized you and handed you over, do not consider in advance what to say. But whatever will be given you in that hour, say that. For you will not be speaking, but the Holy Spirit
    12: Then brother will betray brother to death, and the father, a son; and children will rise up against their parents and will bring about their death
    13: And you will be hated by all for the sake of my name. But whoever will have persevered unto the end, the same will be saved
    14: Then, when you have seen the abomination of desolation, standing where it ought not to be, let the reader understand: then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains
    15: And let whoever is on the rooftop not descend to the house, nor enter so as to take anything from the house
    16: And let whoever may be in the field not return to take his garment
    17: But woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days
    18: Truly, pray that these things may not happen in winter
    19: For those days shall have such tribulations as have not been since the beginning of the creation that God founded, even until now, and shall not be
    20: And unless the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would be saved. But, for the sake of the elect, whom he has chosen, he has shortened the days
    21: And then, if anyone will have said to you: ‘Behold, here is the Christ. Behold, in that place.’ Do not believe it
    22: For false Christs and false prophets will rise up, and they will present signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if it were possible, even the elect
    23: Therefore, you must take heed. Behold, I have foretold all to you
    24: But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her splendor
    25: And the stars of heaven will be falling down, and the powers that are in heaven will be moved
    26: And then they shall see the Son of man arriving on the clouds, with great power and glory
    27: And then he will send his Angels, and gather together his elect, from the four winds, from the limits of the earth, to the limits of heaven
    28: Now from the fig tree discern a parable. When its branch becomes tender and the foliage has been formed, you know that summer is very near
    29: So also, when you will have seen these things happen, know that it is very near, even at the doors
    30: Amen I say to you, that this lineage shall not pass away, until all these things have happened
    31: Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away
    32: But concerning that day or hour, no one knows, neither the Angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father
    33: Take heed, be vigilant, and pray. For you do not know when the time may be
    34: It is like a man who, setting out on a sojourn, left behind his house, and gave his servants authority over every work, and instructed the doorkeeper to stand watch
    35: Therefore, be vigilant, for you do not know when the lord of the house may arrive: in the evening, or in the middle of the night, or at first light, or in the morning
    36: Otherwise, when he will have arrived unexpectedly, he may find you sleeping
    37: But what I say to you, I say to all: Be vigilant.

  Chapter 14.

    1: Now the feast of Passover and of Unleavened Bread was two days away. And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, were seeking a means by which they might deceitfully seize him and kill him
    2: But they said, “Not on the feast day, lest perhaps there may be a tumult among the people.
    3: And when he was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper, and was reclining to eat, a woman arrived having an alabaster container of ointment, of precious spikenard. And breaking open the alabaster container, she poured it over his head
    4: But there were some who became indignant within themselves and who were saying: “What is the reason for this waste of the ointment
    5: For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and been given to the poor.” And they murmured against her
    6: But Jesus said: “Permit her. What is the reason that you trouble her? She has done a good deed for me
    7: For the poor, you have with you always. And whenever you wish, you are able to do good to them. But you do not have me always
    8: But she has done what she could. She has arrived in advance to anoint my body for burial
    9: Amen I say to you, wherever this Gospel shall be preached throughout the entire world, the things she has done also shall be told, in memory of her.
    10: And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went away, to the leaders of the priests, in order to betray him to them
    11: And they, upon hearing it, were gladdened. And they promised him that they would give him money. And he sought an opportune means by which he might betray him
    12: And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they immolate the Passover, the disciples said to him, “Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?
    13: And he sent two of his disciples, and he said to them: “Go into the city. And you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water; follow him
    14: And wherever he will have entered, say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher says: Where is my dining room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
    15: And he will show you a large cenacle, fully furnished. And there, you shall prepare it for us.
    16: And his disciples departed and went into the city. And they found it just as he had told them. And they prepared the Passover
    17: Then, when evening came, he arrived with the twelve
    18: And while reclining and eating with them at table, Jesus said, “Amen I say to you, that one of you, who eats with me, will betray me.
    19: But they began to be sorrowful and to say to him, one at a time: “Is it I?
    20: And he said to them: “It is one of the twelve, who dips his hand with me in the dish
    21: And indeed, the Son of man goes, just as it has been written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of man will be betrayed. It would be better for that man if he had never been born.
    22: And while eating with them, Jesus took bread. And blessing it, he broke it and gave it to them, and he said: “Take. This is my body.
    23: And having taken the chalice, giving thanks, he gave it to them. And they all drank from it
    24: And he said to them: “This is my blood of the new covenant, which shall be shed for many
    25: Amen I say to you, that I will no longer drink from this fruit of the vine, until that day when I will drink it new in the kingdom of God.
    26: And having sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives
    27: And Jesus said to them: “You will all fall away from me in this night. For it has been written: ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.
    28: But after I have risen again, I will go before you to Galilee.
    29: Then Peter said to him, “Even if all will have fallen away from you, yet I will not.
    30: And Jesus said to him, “Amen I say to you, that this day, in this night, before the rooster has uttered its voice twice, you will deny me three times.
    31: But he spoke further, “Even if I must die along with you, I will not deny you.” And they all spoke similarly also
    32: And they went to a country estate, by the name of Gethsemani. And he said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I pray.
    33: And he took Peter, and James, and John with him. And he began to be afraid and wearied
    34: And he said to them: “My soul is sorrowful, even unto death. Remain here and be vigilant.
    35: And when he had proceeded on a little ways, he fell prostrate on the ground. And he prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him
    36: And he said: “Abba, Father, all things are possible to you. Take this chalice from me. But let it be, not as I will, but as you will.
    37: And he went and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter: “Simon, are you sleeping? Were you not able to be vigilant for one hour
    38: Watch and pray, so that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
    39: And going away again, he prayed, saying the same words
    40: And upon returning, he found them sleeping yet again, (for their eyes were heavy) and they did not know how to respond to him
    41: And he arrived for the third time, and he said to them: “Sleep now, and take rest. It is enough. The hour has arrived. Behold, the Son of man will be betrayed into the hands of sinners
    42: Rise up, let us go. Behold, he who will betray me is near.
    43: And while he was still speaking, Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, arrived, and with him was a large crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, and the elders
    44: Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying: “He whom I shall kiss, it is he. Take hold of him, and lead him away cautiously.
    45: And when he had arrived, immediately drawing near to him, he said: “Hail, Master!” And he kissed him
    46: But they laid hands on him and held him
    47: Then a certain one of those standing near, drawing a sword, struck a servant of the high priest and cut off his ear
    48: And in response, Jesus said to them: “Have you set out to apprehend me, just as if to a robber, with swords and clubs
    49: Daily, I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not take hold of me. But in this way, the scriptures are fulfilled.
    50: Then his disciples, leaving him behind, all fled away
    51: Now a certain young man followed him, having nothing but a fine linen cloth over himself. And they took hold of him
    52: But he, rejecting the fine linen cloth, escaped from them naked
    53: And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the priests and the scribes and the elders came together
    54: But Peter followed him from a distance, even into the court of the high priest. And he sat with the servants at the fire and warmed himself
    55: Yet truly, the leaders of the priests and the entire council sought testimony against Jesus, so that they might deliver him to death, and they found none
    56: For many spoke false testimony against him, but their testimony did not agree
    57: And certain ones, rising up, bore false witness against him, saying
    58: “For we heard him say, ‘I will destroy this temple, made with hands, and within three days I will build another, not made with hands.’ 
    59: And their testimony did not agree
    60: And the high priest, rising up in their midst, questioned Jesus, saying, “Do you have nothing to say in answer to the things that are brought against you by these ones?
    61: But he was silent and gave no answer. Again, the high priest questioned him, and he said to him, “Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed God?
    62: Then Jesus said to him: “I am. And you shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of the power of God and arriving with the clouds of heaven.
    63: Then the high priest, rending his garments, said: “Why do we still require witnesses
    64: You have heard the blasphemy. How does it seem to you?” And they all condemned him, as guilty unto death
    65: And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face and to strike him with fists, and to say to him, “Prophesy.” And the servants struck him with the palms their hands
    66: And while Peter was in the court below, one of the maidservants of the high priest arrived
    67: And when she had seen Peter warming himself, she stared at him, and she said: “You also were with Jesus of Nazareth.
    68: But he denied it, saying, “I neither know nor understand what you saying.” And he went outside, in front of the court; and a rooster crowed
    69: Then again, when a maidservant had seen him, she began to say to the bystanders, “For this is one of them.
    70: But he denied it again. And after a little while, again those standing near said to Peter: “In truth, you are one of them. For you, too, are a Galilean.
    71: Then he began to curse and to swear, saying, “For I do not know this man, about whom you are speaking.
    72: And immediately the rooster crowed again. And Peter remembered the word that Jesus had said to him, “Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” And he began to weep

  Chapter 15.

    1: And immediately in the morning, after the leaders of the priests had taken counsel with the elders and the scribes and the entire council, binding Jesus, they led him away and delivered him to Pilate
    2: And Pilate questioned him, “You are the king of the Jews?” But in response, he said to him, “You are saying it.
    3: And the leaders of the priests accused him in many things
    4: Then Pilate again questioned him, saying: “Do you not have any response? See how greatly they accuse you.
    5: But Jesus continued to give no response, so that Pilate wondered
    6: Now on the feast day, he was accustomed to release to them one of the prisoners, whomever they requested
    7: But there was one called Barabbas, who had committed murder in the sedition, who was confined with those of the sedition
    8: And when the crowd had ascended, they began to petition him to do as he always did for them
    9: But Pilate answered them and said, “Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?
    10: For he knew that it was out of envy that the leaders of the priests had betrayed him
    11: Then the chief priests incited the crowd, so that he would release Barabbas to them instead
    12: But Pilate, responding again, said to them: “Then what do you want me to do with the king of the Jews?
    13: But again they cried out, “Crucify him.
    14: Yet truly, Pilate said to them: “Why? What evil has he done?” But they cried out all the more, “Crucify him.
    15: Then Pilate, wishing to satisfy the people, released Barabbas to them, and he delivered Jesus, having severely scourged him, to be crucified
    16: Then the soldiers led him away to the court of the praetorium. And they called together the entire cohort
    17: And they clothed him with purple. And platting a crown of thorns, they placed it on him
    18: And they began to salute him: “Hail, king of the Jews.
    19: And they struck his head with a reed, and they spit on him. And kneeling down, they reverenced him
    20: And after they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple, and they clothed him in his own garments. And they led him away, so that they might crucify him
    21: And they compelled a certain passerby,  Simon the Cyrenian, who was arriving from the countryside, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to take up his cross
    22: And they led him through to the place called Golgotha, which means, ‘the Place of Calvary.
    23: And they gave him wine with myrrh to drink. But he did not accept it
    24: And while crucifying him, they divided his garments, casting lots over them, to see who would take what
    25: Now it was the third hour. And they crucified him
    26: And the title of his case was written as: THE KING OF THE JEWS
    27: And with him they crucified two robbers: one at his right, and the other at his left
    28: And the scripture was fulfilled, which says: “And with the iniquitous he was reputed.
    29: And the passersby blasphemed him, shaking their heads and saying, “Ah, you who would destroy the temple of God, and in three days rebuild it
    30: save yourself by descending from the cross.
    31: And similarly the leaders of the priests, mocking him with the scribes, said to one another: “He saved others. He is not able to save himself
    32: Let the Christ, the king of Israel, descend now from the cross, so that we may see and believe.” Those who were crucified with him also insulted him
    33: And when the sixth hour arrived, a darkness occurred over the entire earth, until the ninth hour
    34: And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lamma sabacthani?” which means, “My God, My God, why have you forsaken me?
    35: And some of those standing near, upon hearing this, said, “Behold, he is calling Elijah.
    36: Then one of them, running and filling a sponge with vinegar, and placing it around a reed, gave it to him to drink, saying: “Wait. Let us see if Elijah will come to take him down.
    37: Then Jesus, having emitted a loud cry, expired
    38: And the veil of the temple was torn in two, from the top to the bottom
    39: Then the centurion who stood opposite him, seeing that he had expired while crying out in this way, said: “Truly, this man was the Son of God.
    40: Now there were also women watching from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joseph, and Salome
    41:  (and while he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him) and many other women, who had ascended along with him to Jerusalem
    42: And when evening had now arrived (because it was the Preparation Day, which is before the Sabbath
    43: there arrived Joseph of Arimathea, a noble council member, who himself was also awaiting the kingdom of God. And he boldly entered to Pilate and petitioned for the body of Jesus
    44: But Pilate wondered if he had already died. And summoning a centurion, he questioned him as to whether he was already dead
    45: And when he had been informed by the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph
    46: Then Joseph, having bought a fine linen cloth, and taking him down, wrapped him in the fine linen and laid him in a sepulcher, which was hewn from a rock. And he rolled a stone to the entrance of the tomb
    47: Now Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph observed where he was laid

  Chapter 16.

    1: And when the Sabbath had passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought aromatic spices, so that when they arrived they could anoint Jesus
    2: And very early in the morning, on the first of the Sabbaths, they went to the tomb, the sun having now risen
    3: And they said to one another, “Who will roll back the stone for us, away from the entrance of the tomb?
    4: And looking, they saw that the stone was rolled back. For certainly it was very large
    5: And upon entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, covered with a white robe, and they were astonished
    6: And he said to them, “Do not become frightened. You are seeking Jesus of Nazareth, the Crucified One. He has risen. He is not here. Behold, the place where they laid him
    7: But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you into Galilee. There you shall see him, just as he told you.
    8: But they, going out, fled from the tomb. For trembling and fear had overwhelmed them. And they said nothing to anyone. For they were afraid
    9: But he, rising early on the first Sabbath, appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons
    10: She went and announced it to those who had been with him, while they were mourning and weeping
    11: And they, upon hearing that he was alive and that he had been seen by her, did not believe it
    12: But after these events, he was shown in another likeness to two of them walking, as they were going out to the countryside
    13: And they, returning, reported it to the others; neither did they believe them
    14: Finally, he appeared to the eleven, as they sat at table. And he rebuked them for their incredulity and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen that he had risen again
    15: And he said to them: “Go forth to the whole world and preach the Gospel to every creature
    16: Whoever will have believed and been baptized will be saved. Yet truly, whoever will not have believed will be condemned
    17: Now these signs will accompany those who believe. In my name, they shall cast out demons. They will speak in new languages
    18: They will take up serpents, and, if they drink anything deadly, it will not harm them. They shall lay their hands upon the sick, and they will be well.
    19: And indeed, the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and he sits at the right hand of God
    20: Then they, setting out, preached everywhere, with the Lord cooperating and confirming the word by the accompanying signs

End of day 294.