Day 180:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: These, too, are parables of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, transferred
    2: It is to the glory of God to conceal a word, and it is to the glory of kings to investigate speech
    3: Heaven above, and earth below, and the heart of kings are each unsearchable
    4: Take away the tarnish from silver, and a most pure vessel will go forth
    5: Take away impiety from the face of the king, and his throne shall be made firm by justice
    6: Do not appear glorious before the king, and do not stand in the place of the great
    7: For it is better that it should be said to you, “Ascend to here,” than that you should be humbled before the prince
    8: The things that your eyes have seen, do not offer hastily in a quarrel, lest afterward you may not be able to make amends, when you have dishonored your friend
    9: Argue your case with your friend, and do not reveal the secret to an outsider
    10: lest perhaps he may insult you, when he has heard it, and he might not cease to reproach you. Grace and friendship free a man; preserve these for yourself, lest you fall under reproach
    11: Whoever speaks a word at an opportune time is like apples of gold on beds of silver
    12: Whoever reproves the wise and obedient ear is like an earring of gold with a shining pearl
    13: Just like the cold of snow in a time of harvest, so also is a faithful messenger to him who sent him: he causes his soul to rest
    14: A man who boasts and does not fulfill his promises is like clouds and wind, when rain does not follow
    15: By patience, a leader shall be appeased, and a soft tongue shall break hardness
    16: You have discovered honey; eat what is sufficient for you, lest perhaps, being filled up, you may vomit it
    17: Withdraw your feet from the house of your neighbor, lest, when he has had his fill, he may hate you
    18: A man who speaks false testimony against his neighbor is like a dart and a sword and a sharp arrow
    19: Whoever sets his hopes on the unfaithful in a day of anguish is like a rotten tooth and weary foot
    20: and like one who loosens his garment in cold weather. Whoever sings verses to a wicked heart is like vinegar on baking soda. Just like a moth to a garment, and a worm to wood, so too does the sadness of a man do harm to the heart
    21: If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink
    22: For you will gather hot coals upon his head, and the Lord will repay you
    23: The north wind brings forth the rain, and a sorrowful face brings forth a detracting tongue
    24: It is better to sit in a corner of the attic, than with an argumentative woman and in a shared house
    25: Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so too are good reports from a far away land
    26: The just falling down before the impious is like a fountain stirred up by feet and like a corrupted spring
    27: Just as whoever eats too much honey, it is not good for him, so also whoever is an investigator of what is majestic will be overwhelmed by glory
    28: Just like a city lying in the open and without surrounding walls, so also is a man who is unable to restrain his own spirit in speaking

  Chapter 26.

    1: In the manner of snow in the summer, and rain at the harvest, so also is glory unfit for the foolish
    2: Like a bird flying away to another place, and like a sparrow that hurries away freely, so also a curse uttered against someone without cause will pass away
    3: A whip is for a horse, and a muzzle is for donkey, and a rod is for the back of the imprudent
    4: Do not respond to the foolish according to his folly, lest you become like him
    5: Respond to the foolish according to his folly, lest he imagine himself to be wise
    6: Whoever sends words by a foolish messenger has lame feet and drinks iniquity
    7: In the manner of a lame man who has beautiful legs to no purpose, so also is a parable unfit for the mouth of the foolish
    8: Just like one who casts a stone into the pile of Mercury, so also is he who gives honor to the foolish
    9: In the manner of a thorn, if it were to spring up from the hand of a drunkard, so also is a parable in the mouth of the foolish
    10: Judgment determines cases. And whoever imposes silence on the foolish mitigates anger
    11: Like a dog that returns to his vomit, so also is the imprudent who repeats his foolishness
    12: Have you seen a man who seems wise to himself? There will be greater hope held for the unwise than for him
    13: The lazy one says, “There is a lion along the way, and a lioness in the roads.
    14: Just as a door turns upon its hinges, so also does the lazy one turn upon his bed
    15: The lazy one conceals his hand under his arms, and it is a labor for him to move it to his mouth
    16: The lazy one seems wiser to himself than seven men speaking judgments
    17: Just like one who takes hold of a dog by the ears, so also is he who crosses impatiently and meddles in the quarrels of another
    18: Just as he is guilty who let loose the arrows and the lances unto death
    19: so also is the man who harms his friend by deceitfulness. And when he has been apprehended, he says, “I did it jokingly.
    20: When the wood fails, the fire will be extinguished. And when the gossiper is taken away, conflicts will be quelled
    21: Just as charcoals are to burning coals, and wood is to fire, so also is an angry man who stirs up quarrels
    22: The words of a whisperer seem simple, but they penetrate to the innermost parts of the self
    23: In the same manner as an earthen vessel, if it were adorned with impure silver, conceited lips are allied with a wicked heart
    24: An enemy is known by his lips, though it is from his heart that he draws out deceit
    25: When he will have lowered his voice, do not believe him, for there are seven vices in his heart
    26: Whoever covers hatred with deceit, his malice shall be revealed in the assembly
    27: Whoever digs a pit will fall into it. And whoever rolls a stone, it will roll back to him
    28: A false tongue does not love truth. And a slippery mouth works ruin

  Chapter 27.

    1: Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what the future day may bring
    2: Let another praise you, and not your own mouth: an outsider, and not your own lips
    3: A stone is weighty, and sand is burdensome; but the wrath of the foolish is heavier than both
    4: Anger holds no mercy, nor does fury when it erupts. And who can bear the assault of one who has been provoked
    5: An open rebuke is better than hidden love
    6: The wounds of a loved one are better than the deceitful kisses of a hateful one
    7: A sated soul will trample the honeycomb. And a hungry soul will accept even bitter in place of sweet
    8: Just like a bird migrating from her nest, so also is a man who abandons his place
    9: Ointment and various perfumes delight the heart. And the good advice of a friend is sweet to the soul
    10: Do not dismiss your friend or your father’s friend. And do not enter your brother’s house in the day of your affliction. A close neighbor is better than a distant brother
    11: My son, study wisdom, and rejoice my heart, so that you may be able to respond to the one who reproaches
    12: The discerning man, seeing evil, hides himself. The little ones, continuing on, sustain losses
    13: Take away the garment of him who has vouched for an outsider. And take a pledge from him on behalf of foreigners
    14: Whoever blesses his neighbor with a grand voice, rising in the night, shall be like one who curses
    15: A roof leaking on a cold day, and an argumentative woman, are comparable
    16: He who would restrain her, he is like one who would grasp the wind, or who would gather together oil with his right hand
    17: Iron sharpens iron, and a man sharpens the countenance of his friend
    18: Whoever maintains the fig tree shall eat its fruit. And whoever is the keeper of his master shall be glorified
    19: In the manner of faces looking into shining water, so are the hearts of men made manifest to the prudent
    20: Hell and perdition are never filled; similarly the eyes of men are insatiable
    21: In the manner of silver being tested in the refinery, and gold in the furnace, so also is a man tested by the mouth of one who praises. The heart of the iniquitous inquires after evils, but the heart of the righteous inquires after knowledge
    22: Even if you were to crush the foolish with a mortar, as when a pestle strikes over pearled barley, his foolishness would not be taken from him
    23: Be diligent to know the countenance of your cattle, and consider your own flocks
    24: for you will not always hold this power. But a crown shall be awarded from generation to generation
    25: The meadows are open, and the green plants have appeared, and the hay has been collected from the mountains
    26: Lambs are for your clothing, and goats are for the price of a field
    27: Let the milk of goats be sufficient for your food, and for the necessities of your household, and for the provisions of your handmaids

  Chapter 28.

    1: The impious flees, though no one pursues. But the just, like a confident lion, shall be without dread
    2: Because of the sins of the land, it has many princes. And because of the wisdom of a man, and the knowledge of those things that are said, the life of the leader shall be prolonged
    3: A poor man slandering the poor is like a violent rainstorm in advance of a famine
    4: Those who abandon the law praise the impious. Those who guard it are inflamed against him
    5: Evil men do not intend judgment. But those who inquire after the Lord turn their souls toward all things
    6: Better is the pauper walking in his simplicity, than the rich walking in ways of depravity
    7: Whoever keeps the law is a wise son. But whoever feeds gluttons brings shame to his father
    8: Whoever piles up riches by usury and profit gathers them for him who will give freely to the poor
    9: Whoever turns away his ears from listening to the law: his prayer will be detestable
    10: Whoever deceives the just in a malicious way will fall into his own perdition. And the simple shall possess his goods
    11: The rich one seems wise to himself. But the poor one, being prudent, shall evaluate him
    12: In the exultation of the just, there is great glory. When the impious reign, men are brought to ruin
    13: Whoever hides his crimes will not be guided. But whoever will have confessed and abandoned them shall overtake mercy
    14: Blessed is the man who is ever fearful. Yet truly, whoever is hardened in mind will fall into evil
    15: An impious leader over a poor people is like a roaring lion and a hungry bear
    16: A leader destitute of prudence will oppress many through false accusations. But whoever hates avarice shall prolong his days
    17: A man who slanders the blood of a life, even if he flees to the pit, no one will tolerate him
    18: Whoever walks simply shall be saved. Whoever is perverse in his steps will fall all at once
    19: Whoever works his land shall be satisfied with bread. But whoever pursues leisure will be filled with need
    20: A faithful man shall be greatly praised. But whoever rushes to become rich will not be innocent
    21: Whoever shows favoritism in judgment does not do well; even if it is for a morsel of bread, he forsakes the truth
    22: A man who hurries to become rich, and who envies others, does not know that destitution will overwhelm him
    23: Whoever corrects a man, afterward he shall find favor with him, more so than he who deceives him with a flattering tongue
    24: Whoever takes away anything from his father or mother, and who says, “This is not a sin,” is the associate of a murderer
    25: Whoever boasts and enlarges himself stirs up conflicts. Yet truly, whoever trusts in the Lord will be healed
    26: Whoever trusts in his own heart is a fool. But whoever treads wisely, the same shall be saved
    27: Whoever gives to the poor shall not be in need. Whoever despises his petition will suffer scarcity
    28: When the impious rise up, men will hide themselves. When they perish, the just shall be multiplied

End of day 180.