Day 322:

Reading 2-Corinthians, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, a brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in all of Achaia
    2: Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ
    3: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all consolation
    4: He consoles us in all our tribulation, so that we too may be able to console those who are in any kind of distress, through the exhortation by which we also are being exhorted by God
    5: For just as the Passion of Christ abounds in us, so also, through Christ, does our consolation abound
    6: So, if we are in tribulation, it is for your exhortation and salvation, or if we are in consolation, it is for your consolation, or if we are exhorted, it is for your exhortation and salvation, which results in the patient endurance of the same passion which we also endure
    7: So may our hope for you be made firm, knowing that, just as you are participants in the suffering, so also shall you be participants in the consolation
    8: For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, about our tribulation, which happened to us in Asia. For we were weighed down beyond measure, beyond our strength, so that we became weary, even of life itself
    9: But we had within ourselves the response to death, so that we would not have faith in ourselves, but in God, who raises the dead
    10: He has rescued us, and he is rescuing us, from great peril. In him, we hope that he will continue to rescue us
    11: And you are assisting, with your prayers for us, so that from many persons, by that which is a gift in us, thanks may be given through many persons, because of us
    12: For our glory is this: the testimony of our conscience, which is found in simplicity of heart and in sincerity toward God. And it is not with worldly wisdom, but in the grace of God, that we have conversed with this world, and more abundantly toward you
    13: For we write nothing else to you other than what you have read and understood. And I hope that you will continue to understand, even unto the end
    14: And just as you have acknowledged us in our role, that we are your glory, so also you are ours, unto the day of our Lord Jesus Christ
    15: And with this confidence, I wanted to come to you sooner, so that you might have a second grace
    16: and through you to pass into Macedonia, and to return to you again from Macedonia, and so be led by you on my way to Judea
    17: Then, although I had intended this, did I act lightly? Or in the things that I consider, do I consider according to the flesh, so that there would be, with me, both Yes and No
    18: But God is faithful, so our word, which was set before you, was not, in him, both Yes and No
    19: For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, through myself and Sylvanus and Timothy, was not Yes, and No; but was simply Yes in him
    20: For whatever promises are of God are, in him, Yes. For this reason, too, through him: Amen to God for our glory
    21: Now the One who confirms us with you in Christ, and who has anointed us, is God
    22: And he has sealed us, and he has placed the pledge of the Spirit in our hearts
    23: But I call God as a witness to my soul, that I was lenient with you, in that I did not return to Corinth
    24: not because we have dominion over your faith, but because we are assistants of your joy. For by faith you stand

  Chapter 2.

    1: But I determined this within myself, not to return again to you in sorrow
    2: For if I make you sorrowful, then who is it that can make me glad, except the one who is made sorrowful by me
    3: And so, I wrote this same thing to you, so that I might not, when I arrive, add sorrow to sorrow for those with whom I ought to rejoice, having confidence in you in all things, so that my joy may be entirely yours
    4: For with much tribulation and anguish of heart, I wrote to you with many tears: not so that you would be sorrowful, but so that you might know the charity that I have more abundantly toward you
    5: But if anyone has brought sorrow, he has not sorrowed me. Yet, for my part, this is so that I might not burden all of you
    6: Let this rebuke be sufficient for someone like this, for it has been brought by many
    7: So then, to the contrary, you should be more forgiving and consoling, lest perhaps someone like this may be overwhelmed with excessive sorrow
    8: Because of this, I beg you to confirm your charity toward him
    9: It was for this reason, also, that I wrote, so that I might know, by testing you, whether you would be obedient in all things
    10: But anyone whom you have forgiven of anything, I also forgive. And then, too, anyone I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it was done in the person of Christ for your sakes
    11: so that we would not be circumvented by Satan. For we are not ignorant of his intentions
    12: And when I had arrived at Troas, because of the Gospel of Christ, and a door had opened to me in the Lord
    13: I had no rest within my spirit, because I was not able to find Titus, my brother. So, saying goodbye to them, I set out for Macedonia
    14: But thanks be to God, who always brings triumph to us in Christ Jesus, and who manifests the fragrance of his knowledge through us in every place
    15: For we are the sweet fragrance of Christ for God, both with those who are being saved and with those who are perishing
    16: To the one, certainly, the fragrance is of death unto death. But to the other, the fragrance is of life unto life. And concerning these things, who is so suitable
    17: For we are not like many others, adulterating the Word of God. But instead, we speak with sincerity: from God, before God, and in Christ

  Chapter 3.

    1: Must we begin again to commend ourselves? Or are we in need (as some are) of epistles of commendation for you, or from you
    2: You are our Epistle, written in our hearts, which is known and read by all men
    3: It has been made manifest that you are the Epistle of Christ, ministered by us, and written down, not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, and not on tablets of stone, but on the fleshly tablets of the heart
    4: And we have such faith, through Christ, toward God
    5: It is not that we are adequate to think anything of ourselves, as if anything was from us. But our adequacy is from God
    6: And he has made us suitable ministers of the New Testament, not in the letter, but in the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life
    7: But if the ministration of death, engraved with letters upon stones, was in glory, (so much so that the sons of Israel were not able to gaze intently upon the face of Moses, because of the glory of his countenance) even though this ministration was ineffective
    8: how could the ministration of the Spirit not be in greater glory
    9: For if the ministration of condemnation is with glory, so much more is the ministration of justice abundant in glory
    10: And neither was it glorified by means of an excellent glory, though it was made illustrious in its own way
    11: For if even what was temporary has its glory, then what is lasting has an even greater glory
    12: Therefore, having such a hope, we act with much confidence
    13: and not as Moses did, in placing a veil over his face, so that the sons of Israel would not gaze intently at his face. This was ineffective
    14: for their minds were obtuse. And, even until this present day, the very same veil, in the readings from the Old Testament, remains not taken away (though, in Christ, it is taken away)
    15: But even until today, when Moses is read, a veil is still set over their hearts
    16: But when they will have been converted to the Lord, then the veil shall be taken away
    17: Now the Spirit is Lord. And wherever the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty
    18: Yet truly, all of us, as we gaze upon the unveiled glory of the face of the Lord, are transfigured into the same image, from one glory to another. And this is done by the Spirit of the Lord

  Chapter 4.

    1: Therefore, since we have this ministry, and in as much as we have obtained mercy for ourselves, we are not inadequate
    2: For we renounce dishonorable and hidden acts, not walking by craftiness, nor by adulterating the Word of God. Instead, by the manifestation of truth, we commend ourselves to the conscience of each man before God
    3: But if our Gospel is in some way hidden, it is hidden to those who are perishing
    4: As for them, the god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that the light of the Gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, would not shine in them
    5: For we are not preaching about ourselves, but about Jesus Christ our Lord. We are merely your servants through Jesus
    6: For God, who told the light to shine out of darkness, has shined a light into our hearts, to illuminate the knowledge of the splendor of God, in the person of Christ Jesus
    7: But we hold this treasure in earthen vessels, so that what is sublime may be of the power of God, and not of us
    8: In all things, we endure tribulation, yet we are not in anguish. We are constrained, yet we are not destitute
    9: We suffer persecution, yet we have not been abandoned. We are thrown down, yet we do not perish
    10: We ever carry around the mortification of Jesus in our bodies, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies
    11: For we who live are ever handed over unto death for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our mortal flesh
    12: Therefore, death is at work in us, and life is at work in you
    13: But we have the same Spirit of faith. And just as it is written, “I believed, and for that reason I spoke,” so we also believe, and for that reason, we also speak
    14: For we know that the One who raised up Jesus will raise us up also with Jesus and will place us with you
    15: Thus, all is for you, so that grace, abounding through many in thanksgiving, may abound to the glory of God
    16: For this reason, we are not insufficient. But it is as though our outer man is corrupted, while our inner man is renewed from day to day
    17: For though our tribulation is, at the present time, brief and light, it accomplishes in us the weight of a sublime eternal glory, beyond measure
    18: And we are contemplating, not the things that are seen, but the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are temporal, whereas the things that are not seen are eternal

End of day 322.