Day 321:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: If I were to speak in the language of men, or of Angels, yet not have charity, I would be like a clanging bell or a crashing cymbal
    2: And if I have prophecy, and learn every mystery, and obtain all knowledge, and possess all faith, so that I could move mountains, yet not have charity, then I am nothing
    3: And if I distribute all my goods in order to feed the poor, and if I hand over my body to be burned, yet not have charity, it offers me nothing
    4: Charity is patient, is kind. Charity does not envy, does not act wrongly, is not inflated
    5: Charity is not ambitious, does not seek for itself, is not provoked to anger, devises no evil
    6: Charity does not rejoice over iniquity, but rejoices in truth
    7: Charity suffers all, believes all, hopes all, endures all
    8: Charity is never torn away, even if prophecies pass away, or languages cease, or knowledge is destroyed
    9: For we know only in part, and we prophesy only in part
    10: But when the perfect arrives, the imperfect passes away
    11: When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I understood like a child, I thought like a child. But when I became a man, I put aside the things of a child
    12: Now we see through a glass darkly. But then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know, even as I am known
    13: But for now, these three continue: faith, hope, and charity. And the greatest of these is charity

  Chapter 14.

    1: Pursue charity. Be zealous for spiritual things, but only so that you may prophesy
    2: For whoever speaks in tongues, speaks not to men, but to God. For no one understands. Yet by the Spirit, he speaks mysteries
    3: But whoever prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation
    4: Whoever speaks in tongues edifies himself. But whoever prophesies edifies the Church
    5: Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but more so to prophesy. For he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless perhaps he interprets, so that the Church may receive edification
    6: But now, brothers, if I were to come to you speaking in tongues, how would it benefit you, unless instead I speak to you in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in doctrine
    7: Even those things that are without a soul can make sounds, whether it is a wind or a stringed instrument. But unless they present a distinction within the sounds, how will it be known which is from the pipe and which is from the string
    8: For example, if the trumpet made an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for battle
    9: So it is with you also, for unless you utter with the tongue in plain speech, how will it be known what is said? For then you would be speaking into the air
    10: Consider that there are so many different kinds of languages in this world, and yet none is without a voice
    11: Therefore, if I do not understand the nature of the voice, then I shall be like a foreigner to the one with whom I am speaking; and he who is speaking will be like a foreigner to me
    12: So it is with you also. And since you are zealous for what is spiritual, seek the edification of the Church, so that you may abound
    13: For this reason, too, whoever speaks in tongues, let him pray for the interpretation
    14: So, if I pray in tongues, my spirit prays, but my mind is without fruit
    15: What is next? I should pray with the spirit, and also pray with the mind. I should sing psalms with the spirit, and also recite psalms with the mind
    16: Otherwise, if you have blessed only with the spirit, how can someone, in a state of ignorance, add an “Amen” to your blessing? For he does not know what you are saying
    17: In this case, certainly, you give thanks well, but the other person is not edified
    18: I thank my God that I speak in tongues for all of you
    19: But in the Church, I prefer to speak five words from my mind, so that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in tongues
    20: Brothers, do not choose to have the minds of children. Instead, be free of malice like infants, but be mature in your minds
    21: It is written in the law: “I will speak to this people with other tongues and other lips, and even so, they will not heed me, says the Lord.
    22: And so, tongues are a sign, not for believers, but for unbelievers; and prophecies are not for unbelievers, but for believers
    23: If then, the entire Church were to gather together as one, and if all were to speak in tongues, and then ignorant or unbelieving persons were to enter, would they not say that you were insane
    24: But if everyone prophesies, and one who is ignorant or unbelieving enters, he may be convinced by it all, because he understands it all
    25: The secrets of his heart are then made manifest. And so, falling to his face, he would adore God, proclaiming that God is truly among you
    26: What is next, brothers? When you gather together, each one of you may have a psalm, or a doctrine, or a revelation, or a language, or an interpretation, but let everything be done for edification
    27: If anyone is speaking in tongues, let there be only two, or at most three, and then in turn, and let someone interpret
    28: But if there is no one to interpret, he should remain silent in the church, then he may speak when he is alone with God
    29: And let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern
    30: But then, if something is revealed to another who is sitting, let the first one become silent
    31: For you are all able to prophesy one at a time, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged
    32: For the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets
    33: And God is not of dissension, but of peace, just as I also teach in all the churches of the saints
    34: Women should be silent in the churches. For it is not permitted for them to speak; but instead, they should be subordinate, as the law also says
    35: And if they want to learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church
    36: So now, did the Word of God proceed from you? Or was it sent to you alone
    37: If anyone seems to be a prophet or a spiritual person, he should understand these things which I am writing to you, that these things are the commandments of the Lord
    38: If anyone does not recognize these things, he should not be recognized
    39: And so, brothers, be zealous to prophesy, and do not prohibit speaking in tongues
    40: But let everything be done respectfully and according to proper order

  Chapter 15.

    1: And so I make known to you, brothers, the Gospel that I preached to you, which you also received, and on which you stand
    2: By the Gospel, too, you are being saved, if you hold to the understanding that I preached to you, lest you believe in vain
    3: For I handed on to you, first of all, what I also received: that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures
    4: and that he was buried; and that he rose again on the third day, according to the Scriptures
    5: and that he was seen by Cephas, and after that by the eleven
    6: Next he was seen by more than five hundred brothers at one time, many of whom remain, even to the present time, although some have fallen asleep
    7: Next, he was seen by James, then by all the Apostles
    8: And last of all, he was seen also by me, as if I were someone born at the wrong time
    9: For I am the least of the Apostles. I am not worthy to be called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God
    10: But, by the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace in me has not been empty, since I have labored more abundantly than all of them. Yet it is not I, but the grace of God within me
    11: For whether it is I or they: so we preach, and so you have believed
    12: Now if Christ is preached, that he rose again from the dead, how is it that some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead
    13: For if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not risen
    14: And if Christ has not risen, then our preaching is useless, and your faith is also useless
    15: Then, too, we would be found to be false witnesses of God, because we would have given testimony against God, saying that he had raised up Christ, when he had not raised him up, if, indeed, the dead do not rise again
    16: For if the dead do not rise again, then neither has Christ risen again
    17: But if Christ has not risen, then your faith is vain; for you would still be in your sins
    18: Then, too, those who have fallen asleep in Christ would have perished
    19: If we have hope in Christ for this life only, then we are more miserable than all men
    20: But now Christ has risen again from the dead, as the first-fruits of those who sleep
    21: For certainly, death came through a man. And so, the resurrection of the dead came through a ma
    22: And just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be brought to life
    23: but each one in his proper order: Christ, as the first-fruits, and next, those who are of Christ, who have believed in his advent
    24: Afterwards is the end, when he will have handed over the kingdom to God the Father, when he will have emptied all principality, and authority, and power
    25: For it is necessary for him to reign, until he has set all his enemies under his feet
    26: Lastly, the enemy called death shall be destroyed. For he has subjected all things under his feet. And although he says
    27: “All things have been subjected to him,” without doubt he does not include the One who has subjected all things to him
    28: And when all things will have been subjected to him, then even the Son himself will be subjected to the One who subjected all things to him, so that God may be all in all
    29: Otherwise, what will those who are being baptized for the dead do, if the dead do not rise again at all? Why then are they being baptized for them
    30: Why also do we endure trials every hour
    31: Daily I die, by means of your boasting, brothers: you whom I have in Christ Jesus our Lord
    32: If, according to man, I fought with the beasts at Ephesus, how would that benefit me, if the dead do not rise again? “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we shall die.
    33: Do not be led astray. Evil communication corrupts good morals
    34: Be vigilant, you just ones, and do not be willing to sin. For certain persons have an ignorance of God. I say this to you with respect
    35: But someone may say, “How do the dead rise again?” or, “What type of body do they return with?
    36: How foolish! What you sow cannot be brought back to life, unless it first dies
    37: And what you sow is not the body that will be in the future, but a bare grain, such as of wheat, or of some other grain
    38: For God gives it a body according to his will, and according to each seed’s proper body
    39: Not all flesh is the same flesh. But one is indeed of men, another truly is of beasts, another is of birds, and another is of fish
    40: Also, there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. But while the one, certainly, has the glory of heaven, the other has the glory of earth
    41: One has the brightness of the sun, another the brightness of the moon, and another the brightness of the stars. For even star differs from star in brightness
    42: So it is also with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown in corruption shall rise to incorruption
    43: What is sown in dishonor shall rise to glory. What is sown in weakness shall rise to power
    44: What is sown with an animal body shall rise with a spiritual body. If there is an animal body, there is also a spiritual one.
    45: Just as it was written that the first man, Adam, was made with a living soul, so shall the last Adam be made with a spirit brought back to life
    46: So what is, at first, not spiritual, but animal, next becomes spiritual
    47: The first man, being earthly, was of the earth; the second man, being heavenly, will be of heaven
    48: Such things as are like the earth are earthly; and such things as are like the heavens are heavenly
    49: And so, just as we have carried the image of what is earthly, let us also carry the image of what is heavenly
    50: Now I say this, brothers, because flesh and blood is not able to possess the kingdom of God; neither will what is corrupt possess what is incorrupt
    51: Behold, I tell you a mystery. Certainly, we shall all rise again, but we shall not all be transformed
    52: in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will rise up, incorruptible. And we shall be transformed
    53: Thus, it is necessary for this corruptibility to be clothed with incorruptibility, and for this mortality to be clothed with immortality
    54: And when this mortality has been clothed with immortality, then the word that was written shall occur: “Death is swallowed up in victory.
    55: “O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?
    56: Now the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law
    57: But thanks be to God, who has given us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ
    58: And so, my beloved brothers, be steadfast and unmovable, abounding always in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not useless in the Lord

  Chapter 16.

    1: Now concerning the collections which are made for the saints: just as I have arranged for the churches of Galatia, so should it also be done with you
    2: On the first day of the week, the Sabbath, let each one of you take from himself, setting aside what will be well-pleasing to him, so that when I arrive, the collections will not have to be made then
    3: And when I am present, whomever you shall approve through letters, these I shall send to bear your gifts to Jerusalem
    4: And if it is fitting for me to go too, they shall go with me
    5: Now I will visit you after I have passed through Macedonia. For I will pass through Macedonia
    6: And perhaps I will stay with you, and even spend the winter, so that you may lead me on my way, whenever I depart
    7: For I am not willing to see you now only in passing, since I hope that I may remain with you for some length of time, if the Lord permits
    8: But I must remain at Ephesus, even until Pentecost
    9: For a door, great and unavoidable, has opened to me, as well as many adversaries
    10: Now if Timothy arrives, see to it that he may be among you without fear. For he is doing the work of the Lord, just as I also do
    11: Therefore, let no one despise him. Instead, lead him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me. For I am awaiting him with the brothers
    12: But concerning our brother, Apollo, I am letting you know that I pleaded with him greatly to go to you with the brothers, and clearly it was not his will to go at this time. But he will arrive when there is a space of time for him
    13: Be vigilant. Stand with faith. Act manfully and be strengthened
    14: Let all that is yours be immersed in charity
    15: And I beg you, brothers: You know the house of Stephanus, and of Fortunatus, and of Achaicus, that they are the first-fruits of Achaia, and that they have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints
    16: So you should be subject also to persons such as this, as well as to all who are cooperating and working with them
    17: Now I rejoice in the presence of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because what was lacking in you, they have supplied
    18: For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, recognize persons such as this
    19: The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you greatly in the Lord, with the church of their household, where I also am a guest
    20: All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss
    21: This is a greeting from my own hand, Paul
    22: If anyone does not love our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema! Maran Atha
    23: May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all
    24: My charity is with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen

End of day 321.