Day 195:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['12', '13', '14', '15']:

  Chapter 12.

    1: If you do good, know to whom you do it, and there will be many thanks for your good deeds
    2: Do good to the just, and you will find great recompense, and if not from him, certainly from the Lord
    3: For there is no good for someone who is always occupied in evil, or who does not give alms. For the Most High holds hatred for sinners, but he takes pity on the repentant
    4: Give to the merciful, and you should not assist the sinner. For the impious and the sinner will be repaid with the vengeance being held for them on the day of retribution
    5: Give to the good, but you should not receive from a sinner
    6: Do good to the humble, but you should not give to the impious; withhold your bread, do not give it to him, otherwise he may overpower you with it
    7: For you will find twice the evil for all the good you will have done to him. For the Most High also holds hatred for sinners, and he will repay vengeance to the impious
    8: A friend will not be known in good times, and an enemy will not be hidden in adversity
    9: By the good fortune of a man, his enemies are grieved; and by his misfortune, a friend is revealed
    10: You should never trust your enemy. For his wickedness rusts like a brass pot
    11: And if he humbles himself and goes about bowed down, increase your alertness and guard yourself from him
    12: You should not sit down anywhere near him, nor should you allow him to sit at your right hand, lest perhaps he may turn toward your place, and seek your seat, and then, in the very end, you would understand my words and be stung by my sermon
    13: Who will take pity on an enchanter struck by a serpent, or on someone who draws near to wild beasts? And so it is with one who keeps company with an iniquitous man and is involved in his sins
    14: For one hour, he will abide with you. But if you begin to turn aside, he will not permit it
    15: An enemy speaks sweetly with his lips, but in his heart, he waits in ambush, so that he may throw you into a pit
    16: An enemy has tears in his eyes. But if he finds an opportunity, he will not be satisfied with blood
    17: And if misfortunes happen upon you, you will find him there first
    18: An enemy has tears in his eyes, but while pretending to help you, he will dig under your feet
    19: He will shake his head, and clap his hands, and whisper much, and change his expression

  Chapter 13.

    1: Whoever touches pitch will be contaminated by it. And whoever associates with the arrogant will be clothed by arrogance
    2: Whoever associates with those more honorable than himself sets a burden on himself. And so, you should have no fellowship with someone who is wealthier than you
    3: What will the cooking pot have in common with the earthen vessel? And when they collide with one another, one will be broken
    4: The rich man has suffered no injustice, and yet he fumes. But the poor man, though he has been wounded, will remain silent
    5: If you are generous, he will take you up; and when you have nothing, he will cast you aside
    6: If you possess, he will feast with you, and he will empty you, and he will not grieve over you
    7: If he has need of you, he will deceive you; and while smiling, he will give you hope. He will converse with you pleasantly, and he will say: “What is it that you need?
    8: And he will impress you with his foods, until he has drained you two or three times, and in the very end, he will ridicule you. And afterward, when he sees you, he will abandon you, and he will shake his head at you
    9: Humble yourself before God, and wait for his hands
    10: Be careful. Otherwise, having been seduced into foolishness, you will be humiliated
    11: Do not choose to be low in your wisdom, otherwise, having been brought low, you will be seduced into foolishness
    12: If you are invited by someone who is more powerful than you, you should decline. Otherwise, he will invite you all the more
    13: You cannot be rude to him, lest you be pushed away. And you cannot stray far from him, lest you be forgotten
    14: You cannot hold a discussion with him as with an equal. You should not trust his many words. For by much talking, he will probe you, and while smiling, he will question you about your secrets
    15: His cruel mind will store up your words; and he will not spare you from affliction, nor from prison
    16: Be cautious of yourself, and attend diligently to what you are hearing. For you are walking toward your own destruction
    17: Yet truly, while listening to these things, consider it as if it were a dream, and you will awaken
    18: Love God for your entire life, and call upon him for your salvation
    19: Every animal loves its own kind; so also every man loves those closest to himself
    20: All flesh will join with whatever is similar to itself, and every man will associate with whomever is similar to himself
    21: If a wolf would at any time have fellowship with a lamb, so also would a sinner have fellowship with the just
    22: What fellowship does a holy man have with a dog? Or what portion do the wealthy have with the poor
    23: In the desert, the wild donkey is the prey of the lion. So also are the poor the pasture of the rich
    24: And just as humility is an abomination to the arrogant, so also does the rich man abhor the poor man
    25: When a wealthy man has been shaken, he is strengthened by his friends. But when a lowly man has fallen, he is expelled even by those who know him well
    26: When a rich man has been deceived, many will help him recover; he has spoken arrogantly, and yet they justify him
    27: When a poor man has been deceived, in addition he is rebuked; he has spoken with understanding, and no place is given to him
    28: The rich man has spoken, and all remain silent, and they repeat his words, even to the clouds
    29: The poor man has spoken, and they say: “Who is this?” And if he stumbles, they will overthrow him
    30: Substance is good for him who has no sin on his conscience. And poverty is called very wicked by the mouth of the impious
    31: The heart of a man changes his face, either for better or for worse
    32: You will find, with difficulty and much labor, the sign of a good heart and a good face

  Chapter 14.

    1: Blessed is the man who has not slipped because of a word from his mouth, and who has not been stung by grief because of an offense
    2: Happy is he who does not have sadness in his mind, and who has not fallen away from his hope
    3: Substance is senseless for a greedy and stingy man. And what would a spiteful man do with gold
    4: Whoever acquires unjustly, according to his own mind, gathers for others. For another will spend his goods lavishly
    5: Whoever is wicked to himself, to whom will he be good? For he will not take enjoyment in his own goods
    6: Whoever has ill will toward himself, nothing is more worthless than he is. But such is the reward of his wickedness
    7: And if he does good, he does it ignorantly and unwillingly. And in the very end, he realizes his own malice
    8: The eye of the spiteful man is wicked, and he averts his face and despises his own soul
    9: The eye of the greedy man is insatiable in his portion of iniquity. He will not be satisfied until he has consumed his own soul, withering it away
    10: An evil eye is directed at evil things. And he will not be satisfied by bread; instead, he will be needy and grieving at his own table
    11: Son, if you have anything, do good to yourself, and offer worthy oblations to God
    12: Remember that death has not been delayed, and that the covenant of the grave has been revealed to you. For the covenant of this world will pass away in death
    13: Do good to your friend before you die. And according to your ability, extend your hand and give to the poor
    14: Do not cheat yourself out of a good day, and do not let the smallest good gift pass you by
    15: Should you not leave it to others to divide your sorrows and labors by lot
    16: Give, and receive, and justify your soul
    17: Before your passing, accomplish justice. For in death, there is no food to be found
    18: All flesh grows old like the grass, and like the foliage that springs forth from a green tree
    19: Some spring up, and others fall away. Such is the generation of flesh and blood. One is finished, and another is born
    20: Every corruptible work will fail in the end. And its worker will go with it
    21: But every excellent work will be justified. And whoever worked it will be honored by it
    22: Blessed is the man who will abide in wisdom, and who will meditate on her righteousness, and who, in his mind, will consider the circumspection of God
    23: He considers her ways in his heart, and he finds understanding in her secrets. He goes after her like an investigator, and he is constant in her ways
    24: He gazes through her windows, and he listens at her door
    25: He rests next to her house, and, fastening a peg in her walls, he sets up his cottage by her hands. And so, good things will find rest in his cottage as time passes
    26: He will station his sons under her covering, and he will abide under her branches
    27: He will be protected by her covering from the heat, and he will rest in her glory

  Chapter 15.

    1: Whoever fears God will do good. And whoever holds to justice will obtain it
    2: And like an honorable mother, she will meet him, and like a virgin bride, she will receive him
    3: She will feed him with the bread of life and understanding. And she will give him to drink from the water of salvific wisdom. And she will be confirmed in him, and he will not waver
    4: And she will hold to him, and he will not be confounded. And she will exalt him, along with those closest to him
    5: And in the midst of the Church, she will open his mouth, and she will fill him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, and she will clothe him with a robe of glory
    6: She will store up in him a treasure of rejoicing and exultation, and she will cause him to inherit an everlasting name
    7: But foolish men will not take hold of her. And though understanding men will meet her, foolish men will not catch sight of her. For she is far from arrogance and deceit
    8: Lying men will be wary of her. But men who speak the truth will be found with her, and they will have success, even when examined by God
    9: Praise is not beautiful in the mouth of a sinner
    10: For wisdom was sent from God. And praise will stand before the wisdom of God, and praise will abound in the mouths of the faithful, and the sovereign Lord will give praise to wisdom
    11: You should not say: “It is because of God that wisdom is absent.” For you should not do what he detests
    12: You should not say: “He has led me astray.” For the impious are of no use to him
    13: The Lord hates all abominable error, and those who fear him will not love such things
    14: God established man from the beginning, and he left him in the hand of his own counsel
    15: He added his commandments and precepts
    16: If you choose to keep the commandments, and if, having chosen them, you fulfill them with perpetual fidelity, they will preserve you
    17: He has set water and fire before you. Extend your hand to whichever one you would choose
    18: Before man is life and death, good and evil. Whichever one he chooses will be given to him
    19: For the wisdom of God is manifold. And he is strong in power, seeing all things without ceasing
    20: The eyes of the Lord are upon those who fear him, and he knows each one of the works of man
    21: He has commanded no one to act impiously, and he has given no one permission to sin
    22: For he does not desire a multitude of unfaithful and useless sons

End of day 195.