Day 177:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: A wise son is the doctrine of his father. But he who ridicules does not listen when he is reproved
    2: From the fruit of his own mouth, a man shall be satisfied with good things. But the soul of betrayers is iniquity
    3: Whoever guards his mouth guards his soul. But whoever gives no consideration to his speech shall experience misfortunes
    4: The lazy one is willing and then not willing. But the soul of he who labors shall be made fat
    5: The just shall detest a lying word. But the impious confound and will be confounded
    6: Justice guards the way of the innocent. But impiety undermines the sinner
    7: One is like the rich, though he has nothing. And another is like the poor, though he has many riches
    8: The redemption of a man’s life is his riches. But he who is poor cannot tolerate correction
    9: The light of the just enriches. But the lamp of the impious will be extinguished
    10: Among the arrogant, there are always conflicts. But those who do everything with counsel are ruled by wisdom
    11: Substance obtained in haste will be diminished. But what is collected by hand, little by little, shall be multiplied
    12: Hope, when it is delayed, afflicts the soul. The arrival of the desired is a tree of life
    13: Whoever denounces something obligates himself for the future. But whoever fears a lesson shall turn away in peace. Deceitful souls wander into sins. The just are merciful and compassionate
    14: The law of the wise is a fountain of life, so that he may turn aside from the ruin of death
    15: Good doctrine bestows grace. In the way of the contemptuous, there is a chasm
    16: The discerning do everything with counsel. But whoever is senseless discloses his stupidity
    17: The messenger of the impious will fall into evil. But a faithful ambassador shall prosper
    18: Destitution and disgrace are for those who abandon discipline. But whoever agrees with a reproof shall be glorified
    19: The desired, when perfected, shall delight the soul. The foolish detest those who flee from evils
    20: Whoever keeps step with the wise shall be wise. A friend of the foolish will become like them
    21: Evil pursues sinners. And good things shall be distributed to the just
    22: The good leave behind heirs: children and grandchildren. And the substance of the sinner is preserved for the just
    23: Much nourishment is in the fallow land of the fathers. But for others, it is gathered without judgment
    24: He who spares the rod hates his son. But he who loves him urgently instructs him
    25: The just eats and fills his soul. But the belly of the impious is never satisfied

  Chapter 14.

    1: A wise woman builds up her household. But a foolish one will pull down with her own hands what has been built up
    2: One who walks on a virtuous journey, and who fears God, is despised by him who advances along a disreputable way
    3: In the mouth of the foolish, there is a rod of arrogance. But the lips of the wise guard them
    4: Where there are no oxen, the feeding trough is empty. But where there are many crops, there the strength of the ox is manifest
    5: A faithful witness will not lie. But a deceitful witness offers a lie
    6: A mocker seeks wisdom and does not find it. The doctrine of the prudent is accessible
    7: Go against a foolish man, and he does not acknowledge lips of prudence
    8: The wisdom of a discerning man is to understand his way. And the imprudence of the foolish is to be wandering astray
    9: The foolish will speak mockingly of sin. But grace lingers among the just
    10: The heart that knows the bitterness of its own soul, in its gladness the outsider shall not meddle
    11: The house of the impious will be wiped away. Yet truly, the tabernacles of the just shall spring forth
    12: There is a way which seems just to a man, but its conclusion leads to death
    13: Laughter shall be mingled with sorrow, and mourning occupies the limits of joy
    14: The foolish will be filled up by his own ways. And the good man shall be above him
    15: The innocent trust every word. The astute one considers his own steps. Nothing good will be for the deceitful son. But the wise servant shall act prosperously and his way will be set in order
    16: The wise fear, and so turn away from evil. The foolish leap ahead with confidence
    17: The impatient will work foolishness. And a resourceful man is hated
    18: The childish will possess foolishness, and the discerning will anticipate knowledge
    19: The evil will fall down before the good. And the impious will fall down before the gates of the just
    20: The pauper will be hated, even by his own neighbor. Yet truly, the friends of the wealthy are many
    21: Whoever despises his neighbor, sins. But whoever pities the poor shall be blessed. Whoever trusts in the Lord loves mercy
    22: They wander astray who work evil. But mercy and truth prepare good things
    23: In every work, there shall be abundance. But where there are many words, there is often need
    24: The crown of the wise is their wealth. The senselessness of the foolish is imprudence
    25: A faithful witness frees souls. And the chameleon utters lies
    26: In the fear of the Lord is the faithfulness of strength, and there shall be hope for his sons
    27: The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, so as to turn aside from the ruin of death
    28: In a multitude of people, there is dignity for the king. And in a paucity of people, there is disgrace for the prince
    29: Whoever is patient is governed by much prudence. But whoever is impatient exalts his foolishness
    30: The well-being of the heart is life for the flesh. But envy is decay for the bones
    31: Whoever slanders the indigent argues against his Maker. But he who has compassion on the poor honors his Maker
    32: The impious will be expelled in his malice. But the just finds hope even in his own death
    33: In the heart of the prudent, wisdom finds rest. And so shall he instruct all the uneducated
    34: Justice elevates a nation. But sin makes the peoples miserable
    35: An intelligent minister is acceptable to the king. Whoever is useless shall bear his wrath

  Chapter 15.

    1: A mild response shatters anger. But a harsh word stirs up fury
    2: The tongue of the wise adorns knowledge. But the mouth of the senseless gushes with foolishness
    3: In every place, the eyes of the Lord consider good and evil
    4: A peaceful tongue is a tree of life. But that which is immoderate will crush the spirit
    5: A fool laughs at the discipline of his father. But whoever preserves rebukes will become astute. In abundant justice, there is very great virtue. But the intentions of the impious will be eradicated
    6: The house of the just has very great strength. And in the fruits of the impious, there is disorder
    7: The lips of the wise shall disseminate knowledge. The heart of the foolish will be dissimilar
    8: The sacrifices of the impious are abominable to the Lord. The vows of the just are appeasing
    9: The way of the impious is an abomination to the Lord. Whoever pursues justice is loved by him
    10: Doctrine is evil to those who abandon the way of life. Whoever hates correction shall die
    11: Hell and perdition are in the sight of the Lord. How much more the hearts of the sons of men
    12: He who corrupts himself does not love the one who afflicts him, nor will he step toward the wise
    13: A rejoicing heart gladdens the face. But by the grief of the soul, the spirit is cast down
    14: The heart of the wise seeks doctrine. And the mouth of the foolish feeds on ignorance
    15: All the days of the poor are evil. A secure mind is like a continual feast
    16: Better is a little with the fear of the Lord, than great treasures and dissatisfaction
    17: It is better to be called to vegetables with charity, than to a fatted calf with hatred
    18: A short-tempered man provokes conflicts. Whoever is patient tempers those who are stirred up
    19: The way of the slothful is like a hedge of thorns. The way of the just is without offense
    20: A wise son gladdens the father. But the foolish man despises his mother
    21: Folly is gladness to the foolish. And the prudent man sets his own steps in order
    22: Intentions dissipate where there is no counsel. Yet truly, they are confirmed where there are many counselors
    23: A man rejoices in the verdict of his own mouth. And a word at the right time is best
    24: The path of life is for the wise above, so that he may turn away from the end of Hell
    25: The Lord will demolish the house of the arrogant. And He will make firm the borders of the widow
    26: Evil intentions are an abomination to the Lord. And pure conversation, most beautiful, shall be confirmed by him
    27: Whoever pursues avarice disturbs his own house. But whoever hates bribes shall live. Through mercy and faith, sins are purged. But through the fear of the Lord, each one turns aside from evil
    28: The mind of the just meditates on obedience. The mouth of the impious overflows with evils
    29: The Lord is distant from the impious. And he will heed the prayers of the just
    30: The light of the eyes rejoices the soul. A good reputation fattens the bones
    31: The ear that listens to the reproofs of life shall abide in the midst of the wise
    32: Whoever rejects discipline despises his own soul. But whoever agrees to correction is a possessor of the heart
    33: The fear of the Lord is the discipline of wisdom. And humility precedes glory

  Chapter 16.

    1: It is for man to prepare the soul, and for the Lord to govern the tongue
    2: All the ways of a man are open to his eyes; the Lord is the one who weighs spirits
    3: Open your works to the Lord, and your intentions will be set in order
    4: The Lord has wrought all things because of himself. Likewise the impious is for the evil day
    5: All the arrogant are an abomination to the Lord. Even if hand will be joined to hand, he is not innocent. The beginning of a good way is to do justice. And this is more acceptable with God than to immolate sacrifices
    6: By mercy and truth, iniquity is redeemed. And by the fear of the Lord, one turns away from evil
    7: When the ways of man will please the Lord, he will convert even his enemies to peace
    8: Better is a little with justice, than many fruits with iniquity
    9: The heart of man disposes his way. But it is for Lord to direct his steps
    10: Foreknowledge is in the lips of the king. His mouth shall not err in judgment
    11: Weights and scales are judgments of the Lord. And all the stones in the bag are his work
    12: Those who act impiously are abominable to the king. For the throne is made firm by justice
    13: Just lips are the will of kings. He who speaks honestly shall be loved
    14: The indignation of a king is a herald of death. And the wise man will appease it
    15: In the cheerfulness of the king’s countenance, there is life. And his clemency is like belated rain
    16: Possess wisdom, for it is better than gold. And acquire prudence, for it is more precious than silver
    17: The path of the just turns away from evils. He who guards his soul preserves his way
    18: Arrogance precedes destruction. And the spirit is exalted before a fall
    19: It is better to be humbled with the meek, than to divide spoils with the arrogant
    20: The learned in word shall find good things. And whoever hopes in the Lord is blessed
    21: Whoever is wise in heart shall be called prudent. And whoever is sweet in eloquence shall attain to what is greater
    22: Learning is a fountain of life to one who possesses it. The doctrine of the foolish is senseless
    23: The heart of the wise shall instruct his mouth and add grace to his lips
    24: Careful words are a honeycomb: sweet to the soul and healthful to the bones
    25: There is a way which seems right to a man, and its end result leads to death
    26: The soul of the laborer labors for himself, because his mouth has driven him to it
    27: The impious man digs up evil, and in his lips is a burning fire
    28: A perverse man stirs up lawsuits. And one who is verbose divides leaders
    29: A man of iniquity entices his friend, and he leads him along a way that is not good
    30: Whoever, with astonished eyes, thinks up depravities, biting his lips, accomplishes evil
    31: Old age is a crown of dignity, when it is found in the ways of justice
    32: A patient man is better than a strong one. And whoever rules his soul is better than one who assaults cities
    33: Lots are cast into the lap, but they are tempered by the Lord

End of day 177.