Day 71:

Reading 2-Samuel, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: And all the tribes of Israel went to David in Hebron, saying: “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh
    2: Moreover, yesterday and the day before, when Saul was king over us, you were the one leading out and leading back Israel. Then the Lord said to you, ‘You shall pasture my people Israel, and you shall be the leader over Israel.’ 
    3: Also, the elders of Israel went to the king at Hebron, and king David struck a pact with them at Hebron in the sight of the Lord. And they anointed David as king over Israel
    4: David was a son of thirty years, when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for forty years
    5: In Hebron, he reigned over Judah for seven years and six months. Then in Jerusalem, he reigned for thirty-three years over all of Israel and Judah
    6: And the king, and all the men who were with him, went away to Jerusalem, to the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. And it was said to David by them, “You shall not enter here, unless you will take away the blind and the lame, who say, ‘David shall not enter here.’ 
    7: But David seized the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David
    8: For David had proposed, on that day, a reward to him who had struck the Jebusites and who had reached to the gutters of the rooftops, and who had taken away the blind and the lame that hated the soul of David. Therefore, it is said in the proverb, “The blind and the lame shall not enter into the temple.
    9: Then David lived in the stronghold, and he called it: the City of David. And he built it up on all sides, from Millo and inward
    10: And he advanced, prospering and increasing, and the Lord, the God of hosts, was with him
    11: Also, Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, with cedar wood, and with builders of wood and builders of stone, in order to make walls. And they built a house for David
    12: And David knew that the Lord had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom over his people Israel
    13: Then David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he had arrived from Hebron. And other sons as well as daughters were born to David
    14: And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon
    15: and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg
    16: and Japhia, and Elishama, and Eliada, and Elipheleth
    17: Then the Philistines heard that they had anointed David as king over Israel. And they all ascended, so that they might seek David. And when David had heard of it, he descended to a stronghold
    18: Now the Philistines, arriving, spread themselves out in the Valley of Rephaim
    19: And David consulted the Lord, saying: “Shall I ascend to the Philistines? And will you give them into my hand?” And the Lord said to David: “Ascend. For I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand.
    20: Therefore, David went to Baal-perazim. And he struck them there. And he said, “The Lord has divided my enemies before me, just as the waters are divided.” Because of this, the name of that place was called Baal-perazim
    21: And in that place they left behind their graven images, which David and his men took away
    22: And the Philistines continued still, so that they ascended and spread themselves out in the Valley of Rephaim
    23: Then David consulted the Lord, “Shall I ascend against the Philistines, and will you deliver them into my hands?” And he responded: “You shall not ascend against them; instead, circle behind their back. And you shall come to them from the side opposite the balsam trees
    24: And when you hear the sound of something going forth from the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall begin the battle. For then the Lord will go forth, before your face, so that he may strike the army of the Philistines.
    25: And so, David did just as the Lord had instructed him. And he struck down the Philistines, from Gibeon until you arrive at Gezer

  Chapter 6.

    1: Then David again gathered together all the elect men of Israel, thirty thousand
    2: And David arose and went away, with the entire people who were with him from the men of Judah, so that they might lead back the ark of God, over which is invoked the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits upon the cherubim above it
    3: And they placed the ark of God on a new cart. And they took it from the house of Abinadab, who was in Gibeon. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart
    4: And when they had taken it from the house of Abinadab, who was in Gibeon, Ahio preceded the ark as the keeper of the ark of God
    5: But David and all of Israel played before the Lord on every kind of musical instrument made of wood, and on harps, and lyres, and timbrels, and bells, and cymbals
    6: And after they had arrived at the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah extended his hand to the ark of God, and he touched it, because the oxen were kicking and had caused it to tip
    7: And the indignation of the Lord was enraged against Uzzah. And he struck him for his temerity. And there he died, beside the ark of God
    8: Then David was saddened because the Lord had struck Uzzah. And the name of that place was called: the Striking of Uzzah, even to this day
    9: And David was very fearful of the Lord on that day, saying, “How shall the ark of the Lord be brought to me?
    10: And he was not willing to send the ark of the Lord to himself in the city of David. Instead, he sent it into the house of Obededom, the Gittite
    11: And the ark of the Lord dwelt in the house of Obededom the Gittite, for three months. And the Lord blessed Obededom, and all his household
    12: And it was reported to king David that the Lord had blessed Obededom, and all that was his, because of the ark of God. Therefore, David went and brought the ark of God, from the house of Obededom, into the city of David with joy. And there were with David seven choirs, and calves for victims
    13: And when those who were carrying the ark of the Lord had traveled six steps, he immolated an ox and a ram
    14: And David danced with all his ability before the Lord. And David was girded with the linen ephod
    15: And David, and all the house of Israel, were leading the ark of the testament of the Lord, with jubilation and the sound of the trumpet
    16: And when the ark of the Lord had entered into the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, looking out through a window, saw king David leaping and dancing before the Lord. And she despised him in her heart
    17: And they led in the ark of the Lord. And they set it in its place in the middle of the tabernacle, which David had pitched for it. And David offered holocausts and peace offerings in the sight of the Lord
    18: And when he had completed offering holocausts and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts
    19: And he distributed to the entire multitude of Israel, as much to men as to women, to each one: one loaf of bread, and one piece of roasted beef, and fine wheat flour fried with oil. And all the people went away, each one to his own house
    20: And David returned, so that he might bless his own house. And Michal, the daughter of Saul, going out to meet David, said: “How glorious was the king of Israel today, uncovering himself before the handmaids of his servants, and being unclothed, as if one of the performers were unclothed.
    21: And David said to Michal: “Before the Lord, who chose me rather than your father, and rather than his entire house, and who commanded me, that I should be the leader over the people of the Lord in Israel
    22: I will both play and demean myself, more so than I have done. And I will be little in my own eyes. And with the handmaids, about whom you are speaking, I will appear more glorious.
    23: And so, there was no child born to Michal, the daughter of Saul, even to the day of her death

  Chapter 7.

    1: Now it happened that, when the king had settled in his house, and the Lord had given him rest on every side from all his enemies
    2: he said to the prophet Nathan, “Do you not see that I live in a house of cedar, and that the ark of God has been placed in the midst of tent skins?
    3: And Nathan said to the king: “Go, do all that is in your heart. For the Lord is with you.
    4: But it happened in that night, behold, the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying
    5: “Go, and say to my servant David: ‘Thus says the Lord: Should you build a house for me as a dwelling place
    6: For I have not lived in a house from the day that I led the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt, even to this day. Instead, I have walked in a tabernacle, and in a tent
    7: And in all the places that I have crossed through, with all the sons of Israel, did I ever speak a word to anyone from the tribes of Israel, whom I instructed to pasture my people Israel, saying: Why have you not built me a house of cedar?
    8: And now, so shall you speak to my servant David: ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you from the pastures, from following the sheep, so that you would be the leader over my people Israel
    9: And I have been with you everywhere that you walked. And I have slain all your enemies before your face. And I have made you a great name, beside the name of the great ones who are upon the earth
    10: And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them, and they shall live there, and they shall no longer be disturbed. Neither shall the sons of iniquity continue to afflict them as before
    11: from the day when I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will give rest to you from all your enemies. And the Lord foretells to you that the Lord himself will make a house for you
    12: And when your days will have been fulfilled, and you will sleep with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who will go forth from your loins, and I will make firm his kingdom
    13: He himself shall build a house to my name. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom, even forever
    14: I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And if he will commit any iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men and with the wounds of the sons of men
    15: But my mercy I will not take away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before my face
    16: And your house shall be faithful, and your kingdom shall be before your face, for eternity, and your throne shall be secure continuously.’ 
    17: According to all these words, and according to this entire vision, so did Nathan speak to David
    18: Then king David entered and sat before the Lord, and he said: “Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house, that you would bring me to this point
    19: Moreover, this has seemed little in your sight, O Lord God, unless you also will speak about the house of your servant for a long time. For this is the law of Adam, O Lord God
    20: Therefore, what more will David be able to say to you? For you know your servant, O Lord God
    21: Because of your word, and according to your own heart, you have done all these great deeds, so that you would make it known to your servant
    22: For this reason, you are magnified, O Lord God. For there is no one like you. And there is no God except you, in all the things that we have heard with our own ears
    23: But what nation is there upon the earth like your people Israel, because of whom God went forth, so that he might redeem a people for himself, and establish a name for himself, and accomplish for them great and terrible things upon the earth, before the face of your people, whom you redeemed for yourself away from Egypt, the nations and their gods
    24: For you have secured your people Israel for yourself, as an everlasting people. And you, O Lord God, have become their God
    25: Now therefore, O Lord God, raise up forever the word that you have spoken over your servant and over his house. And do just as you have said
    26: so that your name may be magnified even forever, and so that it may be said: ‘The Lord of hosts is the God over Israel.’ And the house of your servant David will be established in the sight of the Lord
    27: For you, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed to the ear of your servant, saying, ‘I will build a house for you.’ Because of this, your servant has found it in his heart to pray this prayer to you
    28: Now therefore, O Lord God, you are God, and your words shall be true. For you have spoken to your servant these good things
    29: Therefore, begin, and bless the house of your servant, so that it may be forever before you. For you, O Lord God, have spoken. And so, let the house of your servant be blessed with your blessing forever.

  Chapter 8.

    1: Now after these things, it happened that David struck the Philistines, and he humbled them. And David took the bridle of tribute from the hand of the Philistines
    2: And he struck Moab, and he measured them with a line, leveling them to the ground. Now he measured with two lines, one to kill, and one to keep alive. And Moab was made to serve David under tribute
    3: And David struck Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, the king of Zobah, when he set out to rule over the river Euphrates
    4: And from his troops, David seized one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And he cut the sinew of the leg in all the chariot horses. But he left aside enough of them for one hundred chariots
    5: And the Syrians of Damascus arrived, so that they might bring reinforcements to Hadadezer, the king of Zobah. And David struck down twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians
    6: And David positioned a garrison in Syria of Damascus. And Syria served David under tribute. And the Lord assisted David in all things whatsoever that he set out to accomplish
    7: And David took the armbands of gold, which the servants of Hadadezer had, and he brought them to Jerusalem
    8: And from Betah and Beeroth, cities of Hadadezer, king David took an exceedingly great amount of brass
    9: Then Toi, the king of Hamath, heard that David had struck down the entire strength of Hadadezer
    10: And so, Toi sent his son Joram to king David, so that he might greet him with congratulations, and give thanks, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had struck him down. For indeed, Toi was the enemy of Hadadezer. And in his hand were vessels of gold, and vessels of silver, and vessels of brass
    11: And king David also sanctified these things to the Lord, with the silver and gold that he had sanctified from all the peoples whom he had subdued
    12: from Syria, and Moab, and the sons Ammon, and the Philistines, and Amalek, and from the best spoils of Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, the king of Zobah
    13: David also made a name for himself when he returned from seizing Syria, in the Valley of the Salt Pits, having cut down eighteen thousand
    14: And he positioned guards in Edom, and he stationed a garrison. And all of Edom was made to serve David. And the Lord assisted David in all things whatsoever that he set out to accomplish
    15: And David reigned over all of Israel. And David accomplished judgment and justice with all his people
    16: Now Joab, the son Zeruiah, was over the army. And Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was the keeper of records
    17: And Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were the priests. And Seraiah was the scribe
    18: And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was over the Cherethites and Pelethites. But the sons of David were priests

End of day 71.