Day 244:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem, and pour in drops toward the sanctuaries, and prophesy against the soil of Israel
    3: And you shall say to the land of Israel: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, and I will cast my sword from its sheath, and I will slay the just and the impious among you
    4: But in as much as I have slain among you the just and the impious, for this reason my sword will go forth from its sheath against all flesh, from the south even to the north
    5: So may all flesh know that I, the Lord, have led my sword out of its sheath irrevocably
    6: And as for you, son of man, groan in the breaking of your back, and groan in bitterness before them
    7: And when they will say to you, ‘Why are you groaning?’ you shall say: ‘On behalf of the report, for it is approaching. And every heart will waste away, and every hand will be broken, and every spirit will be weakened, and water will flow across every knee.’ Behold, it is approaching and it will happen, says the Lord God.
    8: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    9: “Son of man, prophesy, and you shall say: Thus says the Lord God: Speak: The sword! The sword has been sharpened and polished
    10: It has been sharpened, so that it may cut down victims! It has been polished, so that it may shine! You are disturbing the scepter of my son. You have cut down every tree
    11: And I have sent it to be made smooth, so that it may be handled. This sword has been sharpened, and it has been polished, so that it may be in the hand of the one who kills
    12: Cry out and wail, O son of man! For this has been done among my people, this is among all the leaders of Israel, who have fled. They have been handed over to the sword, with my people. Therefore, slap your thigh
    13: for it has been tested. And this one, when he will have overthrown the scepter, will not be, says the Lord God
    14: You therefore, O son of man, prophesy, and strike hand against hand, and let the sword be doubled, and let the sword of the slain be tripled. This is the sword of the great slaughter, which causes them to be utterly stupefied
    15: and to waste away in heart, and which multiplies ruin. At all their gates, I have presented the consternation of the sword, which has been sharpened and polished so as to shine, which has been dressed for the slaughter
    16: Be sharpened! Go to the right or to the left, whichever way is the desire of your face
    17: And then I will clap hand against hand, and I will fulfill my indignation. I, the Lord, have spoken.
    18: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    19: “And as for you, son of man, set for yourself two ways, so that the sword of the king of Babylon may approach. Both shall go forth from one land. And with a hand, he will grasp and cast lots; he will cast at the head of the way of the community
    20: You shall appoint a way, so that the sword may approach to Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, or to Judah, into Jerusalem, greatly fortified
    21: For the king of Babylon stood at the fork, at the head of the two ways, seeking divination, shuffling arrows; he inquired of idols, and he consulted entrails
    22: To his right was set the divination over Jerusalem, to place battering rams so as to open a mouth for the slaughter, to lift up the voice of wailing, to place battering rams opposite the gates, to cast up a rampart, to build fortifications
    23: And he shall be, in their eyes, like someone consulting an oracle in vain, or imitating the leisure of Sabbaths. But he will call to mind iniquities, so that it will be captured
    24: Therefore, thus says the Lord God: Because you have been remembered in your iniquities, and you have revealed your betrayals, and your sins have appeared within all your plans, because, I say, you have been remembered, you will be captured by a hand
    25: But as for you, O impious leader of Israel, whose day has arrived that was predetermined at the time of iniquity
    26: Thus says the Lord God: Take away the diadem, remove the crown. Is this not what has exalted the lowly one, and brought low the sublime one
    27: Iniquity, iniquity, iniquity I will make it. And this was not done until the one arrived to whom judgment belongs, and I will hand it over to him
    28: And as for you, son of man, prophesy, and say: Thus says the Lord God to the sons of Ammon, and to their disgrace, and you shall say: O sword, O sword, unsheathe yourself so as to slay; polish yourself so as to kill and to shine
    29: while they look upon you in vain, and they divine lies, so that you may be given over to the necks of the wounded impious, whose day has arrived that was predetermined at the time of iniquity
    30: Be returned to your sheath! I will judge you in the place where you were created, in the land of your nativity
    31: And I will pour out upon you my indignation. In the fire of my fury, I will fan you, and I will give you over to the hands of cruel men, who have devised destruction
    32: You will be food for the fire; your blood will be in the midst of the land; you will be delivered to oblivion. For I, the Lord, have spoken.

  Chapter 22.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “And you, son of man, should you not judge, should you not judge the city of blood
    3: And you shall reveal to her all her abominations. And you shall say: Thus says the Lord God: This is the city which sheds blood in her midst, so that her time may come, and which has made idols against herself, so that she may be defiled
    4: You have offended by your blood, which you shed from yourself. And you have been defiled by your idols which you yourself made. And you have caused your days to approach, and you have brought on the time of your years. Because of this, I have made you a disgrace to the Gentiles, and a derision to all the lands
    5: Those that are near and those that are far from you will triumph over you. You are filthy, infamous, great in destruction
    6: Behold, the leaders of Israel have each used his arm to shed blood within you
    7: They have abused father and mother within you. The new arrival has been oppressed in your midst. They have grieved the orphan and the widow among you
    8: You have spurned my sanctuaries, and you have defiled my Sabbaths
    9: Maligning men were within you, in order to shed blood, and they have eaten upon the mountains within you. They have worked wickedness in your midst
    10: They have uncovered the nakedness of their father within you. They have debased the uncleanness of the menstruous woman within you
    11: And each one has committed abomination with the wife of his neighbor. And the father-in-law has heinously defiled his daughter-in-law. The brother has oppressed his sister, the daughter of his father, within you
    12: They have accepted bribes among you to shed blood. You have received usury and superabundance, and in avarice you have oppressed your neighbors. And you have forgotten me, says the Lord God
    13: Behold, I have clapped my hands over your avarice, which you have worked, and over the blood that has been shed in your midst
    14: How can your heart endure, or your hands prevail, in the days that I will bring upon you? I, the Lord, have spoken, and I will act
    15: And I will disperse you among the nations, and I will scatter you among the lands, and I will cause your uncleanness to fade away from you
    16: And I will possess you in the sight of the Gentiles. And you shall know that I am the Lord.
    17: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    18: “Son of man, the house of Israel has become like dross to me. All these are brass, and tin, and iron, and lead in the midst of the furnace; they have become like the dross of silver
    19: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Since you have all turned into dross, therefore, behold, I will gather you together in the midst of Jerusalem
    20: just as they gather silver, and brass, and tin, and iron, and lead in the midst of the furnace, so that I may kindle in it a fire to melt it. So will I gather you together in my fury and in my wrath, and I will be quieted, and I will melt you down
    21: And I will gather you together, and I will burn you in the fire of my fury, and you will be melted in its midst
    22: Just as silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so will you be in its midst. And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have poured out my indignation upon you.
    23: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    24: “Son of man, say to her: You are a land unclean and not rained upon, in the day of fury
    25: There is a conspiracy of prophets in her midst. Like a lion, roaring and seizing the prey, they have devoured souls. They have taken riches and a price. They have multiplied widows in her midst
    26: Her priests have despised my law, and they have defiled my sanctuaries. They have held no distinction between holy and profane. And they have not understood the difference between defiled and clean. And they have averted their eyes from my Sabbaths. And I was profaned in their midst
    27: Her leaders in her midst are like wolves seizing the prey: to shed blood, and to perish souls, and to continually pursue profit with avarice
    28: And her prophets have covered them without tempering the mortar, seeing emptiness, and divining lies for them, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord God,’ when the Lord has not spoken
    29: The people of the land have oppressed with slander and have seized with violence. They have afflicted the needy and the poor, and they have oppressed the new arrival by accusations without judgment
    30: And I sought among them for a man who might set up a hedge, and stand in the gap before me on behalf of the land, so that I might not destroy it; and I found no one
    31: And so I poured out my indignation upon them; in the fire of my wrath I consumed them. I have rendered their own way upon their head, says the Lord God.

  Chapter 23.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, two women were daughters of one mother
    3: and they fornicated in Egypt; they committed fornication in their youth. In that place, their breasts were conquered; the breasts of their adolescence were subdued
    4: Now their names were Oholah, the elder, and Oholibah, her younger sister. And I held them, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names: Oholah is Samaria, and Oholibah is Jerusalem
    5: And then, Oholah committed fornication against me, and she acted madly with her lovers, with the Assyrians who approached her
    6: who were clothed with hyacinth: rulers and magistrates, passionate youths and all of the horsemen, mounted on horses
    7: And she distributed her fornications to those chosen men, all of them sons of the Assyrians. And she defiled herself with the uncleanness of all those whom she madly desired
    8: Moreover, she also did not abandon her fornications, which she had done in Egypt. For they also slept with her in her youth, and they bruised the breasts of her virginity, and they poured out their fornication upon her
    9: Because of this, I have delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the sons of the Assur, whom she has lustfully desired
    10: They uncovered her shame; they took away her sons and daughters; and they slew her with the sword. And they became infamous women. And they carried out judgments in her
    11: And when her sister, Oholibah, had seen this, she was even more mad with lust than the other. And her fornication was beyond the fornication of her sister
    12: She shamelessly offered herself to the sons of the Assyrians, to the rulers and magistrates who brought themselves to her clothed with colorful garments, to the horsemen who were carried by horses, and to the youths, all of them exceptional in appearance
    13: And I saw that she had been defiled, and that they both took the same path
    14: And she increased her fornications. And when she had seen men depicted on the wall, the images of the Chaldeans, expressed in colors
    15: with belts wrapped around the waist, and with dyed headdresses on their heads, having seen the appearance of all the rulers, the likenesses of the sons of Babylon and of the land of the Chaldeans in which they were born
    16: she became mad for them with the desire of her eyes, and she sent messengers to them in Chaldea
    17: And when the sons of Babylon had gone to her, to the bed of breasts, they defiled her with their fornications, and she was polluted by them, and her soul was gorged by them
    18: Also, her fornications were uncovered, and her shame was revealed. And my soul withdrew from her, as my soul had withdrawn from her sister
    19: For she multiplied her fornications, remembering the days of her youth, in which she fornicated in the land of Egypt
    20: And she was mad with lust after lying with them, whose flesh is like the flesh of donkeys, and whose flow is like the flow of horses
    21: And you have revisited the crimes of your youth, when your breasts were conquered in Egypt, and the breasts of your adolescence were subdued
    22: Because of this, Oholibah, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will raise up against you all of your lovers, with whom your soul has been gorged. And I will gather them together against you all around
    23: the sons of Babylon, and all the Chaldeans, the nobles, the sovereigns and princes, all the sons of the Assyrians, youths of exceptional form, all the rulers and magistrates, the leaders among leaders, and the renowned riders of horses
    24: And they will overwhelm you, well-equipped with chariot and wheel, a multitude of peoples. They will be armed against you on every side with armor and shield and helmet. And I will give judgment to their eyes, and they will judge you with their judgments
    25: And against you, I will set my zeal, which they will execute upon you with fury. They will cut off your nose and your ears. And what remains will fall by the sword. They will seize your sons and your daughters, and your youngest will be devoured by fire
    26: And they will strip you of your vestments, and take away the articles of your glory
    27: And I will cause your wickedness to cease from you, and your fornication to cease from the land of Egypt. Neither shall you lift up your eyes toward them, and you shall no longer remember Egypt
    28: For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you have hated, into the hands by which your soul has been gorged
    29: And they will act toward you with hatred, and they will take away all your labors, and they will send you away naked and filled with disgrace. And the shame of your fornication will be revealed: your crimes and your fornications
    30: They have done these things to you, because you have fornicated after the Gentiles, among whom you were defiled by their idols
    31: You have walked in the way of your sister, and so I will give her chalice into your hand
    32: Thus says the Lord God: You will drink the chalice of your sister, deep and wide. You will be held in derision and in ridicule, to a very great extent
    33: You will be filled with inebriation and sorrow, by the chalice of grief and sadness, by the chalice of your sister Samaria
    34: And you will drink it, and you will empty it, even to the dregs. And you will consume even its particles. And you will wound your own breasts. For I have spoken, says the Lord God
    35: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Since you have forgotten me, and you have cast me behind your body, so also will you bear your wickedness and your fornications.
    36: And the Lord spoke to me, saying: “Son of man, should you not judge Oholah and Oholibah, and announce to them their crimes
    37: For they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands, and they have fornicated with their idols. Moreover, they have offered even their children, whom they bore for me, to them to be devoured
    38: But they have done even this to me: They have defiled my sanctuary on the same day, and they have profaned my Sabbaths
    39: And when they immolated their children to their idols, they also entered my sanctuary on the same day, so that they defiled it. They have done these things, even in the midst of my house
    40: They sent for men who were coming from far away, to whom they had sent a messenger. And so, behold, they arrived, those for whom you washed yourself, and smeared cosmetics around your eyes, and were adorned with feminine ornaments
    41: You sat upon a very beautiful bed, and a table was adorned before you, on which you placed my incense and my ointment
    42: And the voice of a multitude was exulting within her. And concerning certain men, who were being led out of a multitude of persons, and who were arriving from the desert, they placed bracelets on their hands and beautiful crowns on their heads
    43: And I said about her, as she was being worn away by her adulteries, ‘Even now, she continues in her fornication!
    44: And they entered to her, as if to a kept woman. So did they enter to Oholah and Oholibah, nefarious women
    45: But there are just men; these shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses and with the judgment of those who shed blood. For they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands
    46: For thus says the Lord God: Lead upon them a multitude, and hand them over to tumult and to pillaging
    47: And may they be stoned with the stones of the peoples, and may they be pierced with their own swords. They will put to death their sons and daughters, and they will burn their houses with fire
    48: And I will take away wickedness from the land. And all women shall learn not to act according to their wickedness
    49: And they will set your own crimes upon you, and you will bear the sins of your idols. And you shall know that I am the Lord God.

  Chapter 24.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, saying
    2: “Son of man, write for yourself the name of this day, on which the king of Babylon was confirmed against Jerusalem today
    3: And you shall speak, through a proverb, a parable to the inciting house. And you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: Set out a cooking pot; set it out, I say, and put water into it
    4: Pile together within it every morsel, every good piece, the thigh and the shoulder, the choice pieces and those full of bones
    5: Take the fattest from the flock, and arrange also a heap of bones under it. Its cooking has boiled over, and its bones in its midst have been thoroughly cooked
    6: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Woe to the city of blood, to the cooking pot that has rust in it, and whose rust has not gone out of it! Cast it out piece by piece! No lot has fallen upon it
    7: For her blood is in her midst; she has shed it upon the smoothest rock. She has not shed it upon the ground, so that it could be covered with dust
    8: So shall I bring my indignation over her, and take my vengeance. I have presented her blood upon the smoothest rock, so that it would not be covered
    9: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Woe to the city of blood, out of which I will make a great funeral pyre
    10: Pile together the bones, which I will burn with fire. The flesh shall be consumed, and the entire composition shall be boiled, and the bones shall deteriorate
    11: Also, place it empty on burning coals, so that it may be heated, and its brass may melt. And let the filth of it be melted in its midst, and let its rust be consumed
    12: There has been much sweat and labor, and yet its extensive rust has not gone out of it, not even by fire
    13: Your uncleanness is execrable. For I wanted to cleanse you, and you have not been cleansed from your filth. So then, neither will you be cleansed before I cause my indignation over you to cease
    14: I, the Lord, have spoken. It shall happen, and I will act. I will not pass over, nor be lenient, nor be placated. I will judge you according to your ways and according to your intentions, says the Lord.
    15: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    16: “Son of man, behold, I am taking away from you, with a stroke, the desire of your eyes. And you shall not lament, and you shall not weep. And your tears shall not flow down
    17: Groan silently; you shall make no mourning for the dead. Let the band of your crown be on you, and let your shoes be on your feet. And you shall not cover your face, nor shall you eat the food of those who mourn.
    18: Therefore, I spoke to the people in the morning. And my wife died in the evening. And in the morning, I did just as he had instructed me
    19: And the people said to me: “Why won’t you explain to us what these things signify, which you are doing?
    20: And I said to them: “The word of the Lord came to me, saying
    21: ‘Speak to the house of Israel: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will defile my sanctuary, the pride of your realm, and the desire of your eyes, and the dread of your soul. Your sons and your daughters, whom you have forsaken, will fall by the sword.
    22: And so, you shall do just as I have done. You shall not cover your faces, and you shall not eat the food of those who mourn
    23: You shall have crowns on your heads, and shoes on your feet. You shall not lament, and you shall not weep. Instead, you will waste away in your iniquities, and each one will groan to his brother
    24: ‘And Ezekiel shall be a portent for you. In accord with all that he has done, so shall you do, when this will happen. And you shall know that I am the Lord God.’ 
    25: “And as for you, son of man, behold, in the day when I will take away from them their strength, and the joy of their dignity, and the desire of their eyes, in which their souls find rest: their sons and their daughters
    26: in that day, when one who is fleeing will come to you, so that he may report to you
    27: in that day, I say, your mouth shall be opened to him who has fled. And you shall speak, and you shall no longer be silent. And you shall be for them a portent. And you shall know that I am the Lord.

End of day 244.