Day 320:

Reading 1-Corinthians, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: Am I not free? Am I not an Apostle? Have I not seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord
    2: And if I am not an Apostle to others, yet still I am to you. For you are the seal of my Apostleship in the Lord
    3: My defense with those who question me is this
    4: Do we not have the authority to eat and to drink
    5: Do we not have the authority to travel around with a woman who is a sister, just as do the other Apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas
    6: Or is it only myself and Barnabas who do not have the authority to act in this way
    7: Who has ever served as a soldier and paid his own stipend? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat from its produce? Who pastures a flock and does not drink from the milk of the flock
    8: Am I saying these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things
    9: For it is written in the law of Moses: “You shall not bind the mouth of an ox, while it is treading out the grain.” Is God here concerned with the oxen
    10: Or is he saying this, indeed, for our sake? These things were written specifically for us, because he who plows, ought to plow in hope, and he who threshes, too, in hope of receiving the produce
    11: If we have sown spiritual things in you, is it important if we harvest from your worldly things
    12: If others are sharers in this authority over you, why are we not more entitled? And yet we have not used this authority. Instead, we bear all things, lest we give any hindrance to the Gospel of Christ
    13: Do you not know that those who work in the holy place eat the things that are for the holy place, and that those who serve at the altar also share with the altar
    14: So, too, has the Lord ordained that those who announce the Gospel should live by the Gospel
    15: Yet I have used none of these things. And I have not written so that these things may be done for me. For it is better for me to die, rather than to let anyone empty out my glory
    16: For if I preach the Gospel, it is not glory for me. For an obligation has been laid upon me. And woe to me, if I do not preach the Gospel
    17: For if I do this willingly, I have a reward. But if I do this reluctantly, a dispensation is granted to me
    18: And what, then, would be my reward? So, when preaching the Gospel, I should give the Gospel without taking, so that I may not misuse my authority in the Gospel
    19: For when I was a free man to all, I made myself the servant of all, so that I might gain all the more
    20: And so, to the Jews, I became like a Jew, so that I might gain the Jews
    21: To those who are under the law, I became as if I were under the law, (though I was not under the law) so that I might gain those who were under the law. To those who were without the law, I became as if I were without the law, (though I was not without the law of God, being in the law of Christ) so that I might gain those who were without the law
    22: To the weak, I became weak, so that I might gain the weak. To all, I became all, so that I might save all
    23: And I do everything for the sake of the Gospel, so that I may become its partner
    24: Do you not know that, of those who run in a race, all of them, certainly, are runners, but only one achieves the prize. Similarly, you must run, so that you may achieve
    25: And one who competes in a contest abstains from all things. And they do this, of course, so that they may achieve a corruptible crown. But we do this, so that we may achieve what is incorruptible
    26: And so I run, but not with uncertainty. And so I fight, but not by flailing in the air
    27: Instead, I chastise my body, so as to redirect it into servitude. Otherwise, I might preach to others, but become myself an outcast

  Chapter 10.

    1: For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and they all went across the sea
    2: And in Moses, they all were baptized, in the cloud and in the sea
    3: And they all ate of the same spiritual food
    4: And they all drank of the same spiritual drink. And so, they all were drinking of the spiritual rock seeking to obtain them; and that rock was Christ
    5: But with most of them, God was not well-pleased. For they were struck down in the desert
    6: Now these things were done as an example for us, so that we might not desire evil things, just as they desired
    7: And so, do not take part in idolatry, as some of them did, just as it was written: “The people sat down to eat and to drink, and then they rose up to amuse themselves.
    8: And let us not commit fornication, as some of them fornicated, and so twenty-three thousand fell on one day
    9: And let us not tempt Christ, as some of them tempted, and so they perished by serpents
    10: And you should not murmur, as some of them murmured, and so they perished by the destroyer
    11: Now all of these things happened to them as an example, and so they have been written for our correction, because the final age has fallen upon us
    12: And so, whosoever considers himself to be standing, let him be careful not to fall
    13: Temptation should not take hold of you, except what is human. For God is faithful, and he will not permit you to be tempted beyond your ability. Instead, he will effect his Providence, even during temptation, so that you may be able to bear it
    14: Because of this, most beloved of mine, flee from the worship of idols
    15: Since I am speaking to those who are prudent, judge what I say for yourselves
    16: The cup of benediction that we bless, is it not a communion in the Blood of Christ? And the bread that we break, is it not a participation in the Body of the Lord
    17: Through the one bread, we, though many, are one body: all of us who are partakers of the one bread
    18: Consider Israel, according to the flesh. Are not those who eat from the sacrifices partakers of the altar
    19: What is next? Should I say that what is immolated to idols is anything? Or that the idol is anything
    20: But the things that the Gentiles immolate, they immolate to demons, and not to God. And I do not want you to become partakers with demons
    21: You cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. You cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord, and partakers of the table of demons
    22: Or should we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he is? All is lawful to me, but not all is expedient
    23: All is lawful to me, but not all is edifying
    24: Let no one seek for himself, but for others
    25: Whatever is sold in the market, you may eat, without asking questions for the sake of conscience
    26: “The earth and all its fullness belong to the Lord.
    27: If you are invited by any unbelievers, and you are willing to go, you may eat whatever is set before you, without asking questions for the sake of conscience
    28: But if anyone says, “This has been sacrificed to idols,” do not eat it, for the sake of the one who told you, and for the sake of conscience
    29: But I am referring to the conscience of the other person, not to yours. For why should my liberty be judged by the conscience of another
    30: If I partake with thanksgiving, why should I be slandered over that for which I give thanks
    31: Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever else you may do, do everything for the glory of God
    32: Be without offense toward the Jews, and toward the Gentiles, and toward the Church of God
    33: just as I also, in all things, please everyone, not seeking what is best for myself, but what is best for many others, so that they may be saved

  Chapter 11.

    1: Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ
    2: Now I praise you, brothers, because you are mindful of me in everything, in such a way as to hold to my precepts as I have handed them down to you
    3: So I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ. But the head of woman is man. Yet truly, the head of Christ is God
    4: Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered disgraces his head
    5: But every woman praying or prophesying with her head not covered disgraces her head. For it is the same as if her head were shaven
    6: So if a woman is not veiled, let her hair be cut off. Truly then, if it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut off, or to have her head shaven, then she should cover her head
    7: Certainly, a man ought not to cover his head, for he is the image and glory of God. But woman is the glory of man
    8: For man is not of woman, but woman is of man
    9: And indeed, man was not created for woman, but woman was created for man
    10: Therefore, a woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the Angels
    11: Yet truly, man would not exist without woman, nor would woman exist without man, in the Lord
    12: For just as woman came into existence from man, so also does man exist through woman. But all things are from God
    13: Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God unveiled
    14: Does not even nature herself teach you that, indeed, if a man grows his hair long, it is a disgrace for him
    15: Yet truly, if a woman grows her hair long, it is a glory for her, because her hair has been given to her as a covering
    16: But if anyone has a mind to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor does the Church of God
    17: Now I caution you, without praising, about this: that you assemble together, and not for better, but for worse
    18: First of all, indeed, I hear that when you assemble together in the church, there are schisms among you. And I believe this, in part
    19: For there must also be heresies, so that those who have been tested may be made manifest among you
    20: And so, when you assemble together as one, it is no longer in order to eat the Lord’s supper
    21: For each one first takes his own supper to eat. And as a result, one person is hungry, while another is inebriated
    22: Do you not have houses, in which to eat and drink? Or do you have such contempt for the Church of God that you would confound those who do not have such contempt? What should I say to you? Should I praise you? I am not praising you in this
    23: For I have received from the Lord what I have also delivered to you: that the Lord Jesus, on the same night that he was handed over, took bread
    24: and giving thanks, he broke it, and said: “Take and eat. This is my body, which shall be given up for you. Do this in remembrance of me.
    25: Similarly also, the cup, after he had eaten supper, saying: “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.
    26: For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord, until he returns
    27: And so, whoever eats this bread, or drinks from the cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be liable of the body and blood of the Lord
    28: But let a man examine himself, and, in this way, let him eat from that bread, and drink from that cup
    29: For whoever eats and drinks unworthily, eats and drinks a sentence against himself, not discerning it to be the body of the Lord
    30: As a result, many are weak and sick among you, and many have fallen asleep
    31: But if we ourselves were discerning, then certainly we would not be judged
    32: Yet when we are judged, we are being corrected by the Lord, so that we might not be condemned along with this world
    33: And so, my brothers, when you assemble together to eat, be attentive to one another
    34: If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that you may not assemble together unto judgment. As for the rest, I will set it in order when I arrive

  Chapter 12.

    1: Now concerning spiritual things, I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers
    2: You know that when you were Gentiles, you approached mute idols, doing what you were led to do
    3: Because of this, I would have you know that no one speaking in the Spirit of God utters a curse against Jesus. And no one is able to say that Jesus is Lord, except in the Holy Spirit
    4: Truly, there are diverse graces, but the same Spirit
    5: And there are diverse ministries, but the same Lord
    6: And there are diverse works, but the same God, who works everything in everyone
    7: However, the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one toward what is beneficial
    8: Certainly, to one, through the Spirit, is given words of wisdom; but to another, according to the same Spirit, words of knowledge
    9: to another, in the same Spirit, faith; to another, in the one Spirit, the gift of healing
    10: to another, miraculous works; to another, prophecy; to another, the discernment of spirits; to another, different kinds of languages; to another, the interpretation of words
    11: But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one according to his will
    12: For just as the body is one, and yet has many parts, so all the parts of the body, though they are many, are only one body.  So also is Christ
    13: And indeed, in one Spirit, we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, whether servant or free. And we all drank in the one Spirit
    14: For the body, too, is not one part, but many
    15: If the foot were to say, “Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body,” would it then not be of the body
    16: And if the ear were to say, “Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body,” would it then not be of the body
    17: If the whole body were the eye, how would it hear? If the whole were hearing, how would it smell
    18: But instead, God has placed the parts, each one of them, in the body, just as it has pleased him
    19: So if they were all one part, how would it be a body
    20: But instead, there are many parts, indeed, yet one body
    21: And the eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need for your works.” And again, the head cannot say to the feet, “You are of no use to me.
    22: In fact, so much more necessary are those parts of the body which seem to be weaker
    23: And though we consider certain parts of the body to be less noble, we surround these with more abundant dignity, and so, those parts which are less presentable end up with more abundant respect
    24: However, our presentable parts have no such need, since God has tempered the body together, distributing the more abundant honor to that which has the need
    25: so that there might be no schism in the body, but instead the parts themselves might take care of one another
    26: And so, if one part suffers anything, all the parts suffer with it. Or, if one part finds glory, all the parts rejoice with it
    27: Now you are the body of Christ, and parts like any part
    28: And indeed, God has established a certain order in the Church: first Apostles, second Prophets, third Teachers, next  miracle-workers, and then the grace of healing, of helping others, of governing, of different kinds of languages, and of the interpretation of words
    29: Are all Apostles? Are all Prophets? Are all Teachers
    30: Are all workers of miracles? Do all have the grace of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret
    31: But be zealous for the better charisms. And I reveal to you a yet more excellent way

End of day 320.