Day 285:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Then, seeing the crowds, he ascended the mountain, and when he had sat down, his disciples drew near to him
    2: and opening his mouth, he taught them, saying
    3: “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven
    4: Blessed are the meek, for they shall possess the earth
    5: Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be consoled
    6: Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they shall be satisfied
    7: Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy
    8: Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God
    9: Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God
    10: Blessed are those who endure persecution for the sake of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven
    11: Blessed are you when they have slandered you, and persecuted you, and spoken all kinds of evil against you, falsely, for my sake
    12: be glad and exult, for your reward in heaven is plentiful. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you
    13: You are the salt of the earth. But if salt loses its saltiness, with what will it be salted? It is no longer useful at all, except to be cast out and trampled under by men
    14: You are the light of the world. A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden
    15: And they do not light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, so that it may shine to all who are in the house
    16: So then, let your light shine in the sight of men, so that they may see your good works, and may glorify your Father, who is in heaven
    17: Do not think that I have come to loosen the law or the prophets. I have not come to loosen, but to fulfill
    18: Amen I say to you, certainly, until heaven and earth pass away, not one iota, not one dot shall pass away from the law, until all is done
    19: Therefore, whoever will have loosened one of the least of these commandments, and have taught men so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever will have done and taught these, such a one shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven
    20: For I say to you, that unless your justice has surpassed that of the scribes and the Pharisees you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven
    21: You have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not murder; whoever will have murdered shall be liable to judgment.
    22: But I say to you, that anyone who becomes angry with his brother shall be liable to judgment. But whoever will have called his brother, ‘Idiot,’ shall be liable to the council. Then, whoever will have called him, ‘Worthless,’ shall be liable to the fires of Hell
    23: Therefore, if you offer your gift at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you
    24: leave your gift there, before the altar, and go first to be reconciled to your brother, and then you may approach and offer your gift
    25: Be reconciled with your adversary quickly, while you are still on the way with him, lest perhaps the adversary may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and you will be thrown in prison
    26: Amen I say to you, that you shall not go forth from there, until you have repaid the last quarter
    27: You have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not commit adultery.
    28: But I say to you, that anyone who will have looked at a woman, so as to lust after her, has already committed adultery with her in his heart
    29: And if your right eye causes you to sin, root it out and cast it away from you. For it is better for you that one of your members perish, than that your whole body be cast into Hell
    30: And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it away from you. For it is better for you that one of your members perish, than that your whole body go into Hell
    31: And it has been said: ‘Whoever would dismiss his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce.
    32: But I say to you, that anyone who will have dismissed his wife, except in the case of fornication, causes her to commit adultery; and whoever will have married her who has been dismissed commits adultery
    33: Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not swear falsely. For you shall repay your oaths to the Lord.
    34: But I say to you, do not swear an oath at all, neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God
    35: nor by earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king
    36: Neither shall you swear an oath by your own head, because you are not able to cause one hair to become white or black
    37: But let your word ‘Yes’ mean ‘Yes,’ and ‘No’ mean ‘No.’ For anything beyond that is of evil
    38: You have heard that it was said: ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
    39: But I say to you, do not resist one who is evil, but if anyone will have struck you on your right cheek, offer to him the other also
    40: And anyone who wishes to contend with you in judgment, and to take away your tunic, release to him your cloak also
    41: And whoever will have compelled you for one thousand steps, go with him even for two thousand steps
    42: Whoever asks of you, give to him. And if anyone would borrow from you, do not turn away from him
    43: You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor, and you shall have hatred for your enemy.
    44: But I say to you: Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. And pray for those who persecute and slander you
    45: In this way, you shall be sons of your Father, who is in heaven. He causes his sun to rise upon the good and the bad, and he causes it to rain upon the just and the unjust
    46: For if you love those who love you, what reward will you have? Do not even tax collectors behave this way
    47: And if you greet only your brothers, what more have you done? Do not even the pagans behave this way
    48: Therefore, be perfect, even as your heavenly Father is perfect.

  Chapter 6.

    1: “Pay attention, lest you perform your justice before men, in order to be seen by them; otherwise you shall not have a reward with your Father, who is in heaven
    2: Therefore, when you give alms, do not choose to sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the towns, so that they may be honored by men. Amen I say to you, they have received their reward
    3: But when you give alms, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing
    4: so that your almsgiving may be in secret, and your Father, who sees in secret, will repay you
    5: And when you pray, you should not be like the hypocrites, who love standing in the synagogues and at the corners of the streets to pray, so that they may be seen by men. Amen I say to you, they have received their reward
    6: But you, when you pray, enter into your room, and having shut the door, pray to your Father in secret, and your Father, who sees in secret, will repay you
    7: And when praying, do not choose many words, as the pagans do. For they think that by their excess of words they might be heeded
    8: Therefore, do not choose to imitate them. For your Father knows what your needs may be, even before you ask him
    9: Therefore, you shall pray in this way: Our Father, who is in heaven: May your name be kept holy
    10: May your kingdom come. May your will be done, as in heaven, so also on earth
    11: Give us this day our life-sustaining bread
    12: And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors
    13: And lead us not into temptation. But free us from evil. Amen
    14: For if you will forgive men their sins, your heavenly Father also will forgive you your offenses
    15: But if you will not forgive men, neither will your Father forgive you your sins
    16: And when you fast, do not choose to become gloomy, like the hypocrites. For they alter their faces, so that their fasting may be apparent to men. Amen I say to you, that they have received their reward
    17: But as for you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face
    18: so that your fasting will not be apparent to men, but to your Father, who is in secret. And your Father, who sees in secret, will repay you
    19: Do not choose to store up for yourselves treasures on earth: where rust and moth consume, and where thieves break in and steal
    20: Instead, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven: where neither rust nor moth consumes, and where thieves do not break in and steal
    21: For where your treasure is, there also is your heart
    22: The lamp of your body is your eye. If your eye is wholesome, your entire body will be filled with light
    23: But if your eye has been corrupted, your entire body will be darkened. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great will that darkness be
    24: No one is able to serve two masters. For either he will have hatred for the one, and love the other, or he will persevere with the one, and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth
    25: And so I say to you, do not be anxious about your life, as to what you will eat, nor about your body, as to what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing
    26: Consider the birds of the air, how they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of much greater value than they are
    27: And which of you, by thinking, is able to add one cubit to his stature
    28: And as for clothing, why are you anxious? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they neither work nor weave
    29: But I say to you, that not even Solomon, in all his glory, was arrayed like one of these
    30: So if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is here today, and cast into the oven tomorrow, how much more will he care for you, O little in faith
    31: Therefore, do not choose to be anxious, saying: ‘What shall we eat, and what shall we drink, and with what shall we be clothed?
    32: For the Gentiles seek all these things. Yet your Father knows that you need all these things
    33: Therefore, seek first the kingdom of God and his justice, and all these things shall be added to you as well
    34: Therefore, do not be anxious about tomorrow; for the future day will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its evil.

  Chapter 7.

    1: “Do not judge, so that you may not be judged
    2: For with whatever judgment you judge, so shall you be judged; and with whatever measure you measure out, so shall it be measured back to you
    3: And how can you see the splinter in your brother’s eye, and not see the board in your own eye
    4: Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the splinter from your eye,’ while, behold, a board is in your own eye
    5: Hypocrite, first remove the board from your own eye, and then you will see clearly enough to remove the splinter from your brother’s eye
    6: Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not cast your pearls before swine, lest perhaps they may trample them under their feet, and then, turning, they may tear you apart
    7: Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened to you
    8: For everyone who asks, receives; and whoever seeks, finds; and to anyone who knocks, it will be opened
    9: Or what man is there among you, who, if his son were to ask him for bread, would offer him a stone
    10: or if he were to ask him for a fish, would offer him a snake
    11: Therefore, if you, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your sons, how much more will your Father, who is in heaven, give good things to those who ask him
    12: Therefore, all things whatsoever that you wish that men would do to you, do so also to them. For this is the law and the prophets
    13: Enter through the narrow gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way, which leads to perdition, and many there are who enter through it
    14: How narrow is the gate, and how straight is the way, which leads to life, and few there are who find it
    15: Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves
    16: You shall know them by their fruits. Can grapes be gathered from thorns, or figs from thistles
    17: So then, every good tree produces good fruit, and the evil tree produces evil fruit
    18: A good tree is not able to produce evil fruit, and an evil tree is not able to produce good fruit
    19: Every tree which does not produce good fruit shall be cut down and cast into the fire
    20: Therefore, by their fruits you will know them
    21: Not all who say to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, the same shall enter into the kingdom of heaven
    22: Many will say to me in that day, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and perform many powerful deeds in your name?
    23: And then will I disclose to them: ‘I have never known you. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity.
    24: Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and does them shall be compared to a wise man, who built his house upon the rock
    25: And the rains descended, and the floods rose up, and the winds blew, and rushed upon that house, but it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock
    26: And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them shall be like a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand
    27: And the rains descended, and the floods rose up, and the winds blew, and rushed upon that house, and it did fall, and great was its ruin.
    28: And it happened, when Jesus had completed these words, that the crowds were astonished at his doctrine
    29: For he was teaching them as one who has authority, and not like their scribes and Pharisees

  Chapter 8.

    1: And when he had descended from the mountain, great crowds followed him
    2: And behold, a leper, drawing near, adored him, saying, “Lord, if you are willing, you are able to cleanse me.
    3: And Jesus, extending his hand, touched him, saying: “I am willing. Be cleansed.” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed
    4: And Jesus said to him: “See to it that you tell no one. But go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses instructed, as a testimony for them.
    5: And when he had entered into Capernaum, a centurion approached, petitioning him
    6: and saying, “Lord, my servant lies at home paralyzed and badly tormented.
    7: And Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.
    8: And responding, the centurion said: “Lord, I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant shall be healed
    9: For I, too, am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes, and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.
    10: And, hearing this, Jesus wondered. And he said to those following him: “Amen I say to you, I have not found so great a faith in Israel
    11: For I say to you, that many shall come from the east and the west, and they shall sit at table with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven
    12: But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
    13: And Jesus said to the centurion, “Go, and just as you have believed, so let it be done for you.” And the servant was healed at that very hour
    14: And when Jesus had arrived at the house of Peter, he saw his mother-in-law lying ill with a fever
    15: And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose up and ministered to them
    16: And when evening arrived, they brought to him many who had demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word. And he healed all those having maladies
    17: in order to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah, saying, “He took our infirmities, and he carried away our diseases.
    18: Then Jesus, seeing the great crowds encircling him, gave orders to go across the sea
    19: And one scribe, approaching, said to him, “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you will go.
    20: And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have dens, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to rest his head.
    21: Then another of his disciples said to him, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.
    22: But Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and allow the dead to bury their dead.
    23: And climbing into a boat, his disciples followed him
    24: And behold, a great tempest occurred in the sea, so much so that the boat was covered with waves; yet truly, he was sleeping
    25: And his disciples drew near to him, and they awakened him, saying: “Lord, save us, we are perishing.
    26: And Jesus said to them, “Why are you afraid, O little in faith?” Then rising up, he commanded the winds, and the sea. And a great tranquility occurred
    27: Moreover, the men wondered, saying: “What kind of man is this? For even the winds and the sea obey him.
    28: And when he had arrived across the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes, he was met by two who had demons, who were so exceedingly savage, as they went out from among the tombs, that no one was able to cross by that way
    29: And behold, they cried out, saying: “What are we to you, O Jesus, the Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?
    30: Now there was, not far from them, a herd of many swine feeding
    31: Then the demons petitioned him, saying: “If you cast us from here, send us into the herd of swine.
    32: And he said to them, “Go.” And they, going out, went into the swine. And behold, the entire herd suddenly rushed along a steep place into the sea. And they died in the waters
    33: Then the shepherds fled, and arriving in the city, they reported on all this, and on those who had had the demons
    34: And behold, the entire city went out to meet Jesus. And having seen him, they petitioned him, so that he would cross from their borders

End of day 285.