Day 171:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['141', '142', '143', '144']:

  Chapter 141.

    1: The understanding of David. A prayer, when he was in the cave
    2: With my voice, I cried out to the Lord. With my voice, I made supplication to the Lord
    3: In his sight, I pour out my prayer, and before him, I declare my tribulation
    4: Though my spirit may become faint within me, even then, you have known my paths. Along this way, which I have been walking, they have hidden a snare for me
    5: I considered toward the right, and I looked, but there was no one who would know me. Flight has perished before me, and there is no one who has concern for my soul
    6: I cried out to you, O Lord. I said: You are my hope, my portion in the land of the living
    7: Attend to my supplication. For I have been humbled exceedingly. Free me from my persecutors, for they have been fortified against me
    8: Lead my soul out of confinement in order to confess your name. The just are waiting for me, until you repay me

  Chapter 142.

    1: A Psalm of David, when his son Absalom was pursuing him. O Lord, hear my prayer. Incline your ear to my supplication in your truth. Heed me according to your justice
    2: And do not enter into judgment with your servant. For all the living will not be justified in your sight
    3: For the enemy has pursued my soul. He has lowered my life to the earth. He has stationed me in darkness, like the dead of ages past
    4: And my spirit has been in anguish over me. My heart within me has been disturbed
    5: I have called to mind the days of antiquity. I have been meditating on all your works. I have meditated on the workings of your hands
    6: I have extended my hands to you. My soul is like a land without water before you
    7: O Lord, heed me quickly. My spirit has grown faint. Do not turn your face away from me, lest I become like those who descend into the pit
    8: Make me hear your mercy in the morning. For I have hoped in you. Make known to me the way that I should walk. For I have lifted up my soul to you
    9: O Lord, rescue me from my enemies. I have fled to you
    10: Teach me to do your will. For you are my God. Your good Spirit will lead me into the righteous land
    11: For the sake of your name, O Lord, you will revive me in your fairness. You will lead my soul out of tribulation
    12: And you will scatter my enemies in your mercy. And you will destroy all those who afflict my soul. For I am your servant

  Chapter 143.

    1: A Psalm of David versus Goliath. Blessed is the Lord, my God, who trains my hands for the battle and my fingers for the war
    2: My mercy and my refuge, my supporter and my deliverer, my protector and him in whom I have hoped: he subdues my people under me
    3: O Lord, what is man that you have become known to him? Or the son of man that you consider him
    4: Man has been made similar to vanity. His days pass by like a shadow
    5: O Lord, incline your heavens and descend. Touch the mountains, and they will smoke
    6: Send a flash of lightning, and you will scatter them. Shoot your arrows, and you will set them in disarray
    7: Send forth your hand from on high: rescue me, and free me from many waters, from the hand of the sons of foreigners
    8: Their mouth has been speaking vain things, and their right hand is the right hand of iniquity
    9: To you, O God, I will sing a new song. On the psaltery, with an instrument of ten strings, I will sing psalms to you
    10: He gives salvation to kings. He has redeemed your servant David from the malignant sword
    11: Rescue me, and deliver me from the hand of the sons of foreigners. Their mouth has been speaking vain things, and their right hand is the right hand of iniquity
    12: Their sons are like new plantings in their youth. Their daughters are dressed up: adorned all around like the idols of a temple
    13: Their cupboards are full: overflowing from one thing into another. Their sheep bear young, brought forth in abundance
    14: Their cattle are fat. There is no ruined wall or passage, nor anyone crying out in their streets
    15: They have called the people that has these things: blessed. But blessed is the people whose God is the Lord

  Chapter 144.

    1: The Praise of David himself. I will extol you, O God, my king. And I will bless your name, in this time and forever and ever
    2: Throughout every single day, I will bless you. And I will praise your name, in this time and forever and ever
    3: The Lord is great and exceedingly praiseworthy. And there is no end to his greatness
    4: Generation after generation will praise your works, and they will declare your power
    5: They will tell of the magnificent glory of your sanctity. And they will discourse of your wonders
    6: And they will talk about the virtue of your terrible acts. And they will describe your greatness
    7: They will shout about the memory of your abundant sweetness. And they will exult in your justice
    8: The Lord is compassionate and merciful, patient and full of mercy
    9: The Lord is sweet to all things, and his compassion is upon all his works
    10: O Lord, may all your works confess to you, and let your holy ones bless you
    11: They will speak of the glory of your kingdom, and they will declare your power
    12: so as to make known to the sons of men your power and the glory of your magnificent kingdom
    13: Your kingdom is a kingdom for all ages, and your dominion is with all, from generation to generation. The Lord is faithful in all his words and holy in all his works
    14: The Lord lifts up all who have fallen down, and he sets upright all who have been thrown down
    15: O Lord, all eyes hope in you, and you provide their food in due time
    16: You open your hand, and you fill every kind of animal with a blessing
    17: The Lord is just in all his ways and holy in all his works
    18: The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth
    19: He will do the will of those who fear him, and he will heed their supplication and accomplish their salvation
    20: The Lord watches over all who love him. And he will destroy all sinners
    21: My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and may all flesh bless his holy name, in this time and forever and ever

End of day 171.