Day 207:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: In the earlier time, the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali were lifted up. But in the later time, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, the Galilee of the Gentiles, was weighed down
    2: The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. A light has risen for the inhabitants of the region of the shadow of death
    3: You have increased the nation, but you have not increased the rejoicing. They will rejoice before you, like those who rejoice at the harvest, like the victorious exulting after capturing the prey, when they divide the spoils
    4: For you have prevailed over the yoke of their burden, and over the rod of their shoulder, and over the scepter of their oppressor, as in the day of Midian
    5: For every violent plunder with a tumult, and every garment mixed with blood, will be burned up and will become fuel for the fire
    6: For unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. And leadership is placed upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called: wonderful Counselor, mighty God, father of the future age, Prince of Peace
    7: His reign will be increased, and there will be no end to his peace. He will sit upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to confirm and strengthen it, in judgment and justice, from now even unto eternity. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall accomplish this
    8: The Lord sent a word to Jacob, and it fell upon Israel
    9: And all the people of Ephraim will know it. And the inhabitants of Samaria will say it, in the arrogance and haughtiness of their heart
    10: “The bricks have fallen, but we will build with squared stones. They have cut down the sycamores, but we will replace them with cedars.
    11: And the Lord will raise up the enemies of Rezin over him, and he will turn his adversaries into a tumult
    12: the Syrians from the east and the Philistines from the west. And they will devour Israel with their whole mouth. After all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended
    13: And the people did not return to the One who struck them, and they did not seek the Lord of hosts
    14: And so, the Lord will disperse, away from Israel, the head and the tail, he who bows down and he who refrains, in one day
    15: The long-lived and honorable, he is the head; and the prophet who teaches lies, he is the tail
    16: And those who deceitfully praise this people, and those who are praised, will be thrown down violently
    17: For this reason, the Lord will not rejoice over their youths. And he will not take pity on their orphans and widows. For each one is a hypocrite, and each one is wicked, and every mouth has spoken foolishness. After all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended
    18: For impiety has been kindled like a fire: it will devour brier and thorn, and it will burn in the dense forest, and it will be interwoven with the ascending smoke
    19: The earth has been shaken by the wrath of the Lord of hosts, and the people will become like fuel for the fire. A man will not spare his own brother
    20: And he will turn toward the right, and he will be hungry. And he will eat toward the left, and he will not be satisfied. Each one will eat the flesh of his own arm: Manasseh Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasseh, and together they will be against Judah
    21: After all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended

  Chapter 10.

    1: Woe to those who make unfair laws, and who, when writing, write injustice
    2: in order to oppress the poor in judgment, and to do violence to the case of the humble of my people, in order that widows may be their prey, and that they might plunder the orphan
    3: What will you do on the day of visitation and calamity which is approaching from afar? To whom will you flee for assistance? And where will you leave behind your own glory
    4: so that you may not be bowed down under the chains, and fall with the slain? Concerning all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended
    5: Woe to Assur! He is the rod and the staff of my fury, and my indignation is in their hands
    6: I will send him to a deceitful nation, and I will order him against the people of my fury, so that he may take away the plunder, and tear apart the prey, and place it to be trampled like the mud of the streets
    7: But he will not consider it to be so, and his heart will not suppose it to be this way. Instead, his heart will be set to crush and to exterminate more than a few nations
    8: For he will say
    9: “Are not my princes like many kings? Is not Calno like Carchemish, and Hamath like Arpad? Is not Samaria like Damascus
    10: In the same manner as my hand reached the kingdoms of the idol, so also will it reach their false images, those of Jerusalem and of Samaria
    11: Should I not do to Jerusalem and her false images, just as I have done to Samaria and her idols?
    12: And this shall be: when the Lord will have completed each of his works on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, I will act against the fruit of the exalted heart of king Assur, and against the glory of the haughtiness of his eyes
    13: For he has said: “I have acted with the strength of my own hand, and I have understood with my own wisdom, and I have removed the limits of the people, and I have plundered their leaders, and, like one with power, I have pulled down those residing on high
    14: And my hand has reached to the strength of the people, as to a nest. And, just as the eggs which have been left behind are gathered, so have I gathered the entire earth. And there was no one who moved a wing, or opened a mouth, or uttered a snarl.
    15: Should the axe glorify itself over him who wields it? Or can the saw exalt itself over him who pulls it? How can a rod lift itself up against him who wields it, or a staff exalt itself, though it is only wood
    16: Because of this, the sovereign Lord, the Lord of hosts, will send leanness among his fat ones. And under the influence of his glory, a burning ardor will rage, like a consuming fire
    17: And the light of Israel will be like a fire, and the Holy One of Israel will be like a flame. And his thorns and briers will be set ablaze and devoured, in one day
    18: And the glory of his forest and of his beautiful hill will be consumed, from the soul even to the flesh. And he will flee away in terror
    19: And what remains of the trees of his forest will be so few, and so easily numbered, that even a child could write them down
    20: And this shall be in that day: those not added to the remnant of Israel, and those who escape of the house of Jacob, will not lean upon him who strikes them. Instead, they will lean upon the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth
    21: The remnant of Jacob, again I say the remnant, will be converted to the mighty God
    22: For though your people, O Israel, will be like the sand of the sea, yet only a remnant of them will be converted. The consummation, having been shortened, will be inundated with justice
    23: For the Lord, the God of hosts, will accomplish an abbreviation and a consummation, in the midst of all the earth
    24: For this reason, the Lord, the God of hosts, says this: “My people, who inhabit Zion: do not be afraid of Assur. He will strike you with his rod, and he will lift up his staff over you, on the way of Egypt
    25: But after a little while and a brief time, my indignation will be consumed, and my fury will turn to their wickedness.
    26: And the Lord of hosts will raise up a scourge over him, like the scourge of Midian at the rock of Oreb, and he will raise up his rod over the sea, and he will lift it up against the way of Egypt
    27: And this shall be in that day: his burden will be taken away from your shoulder, and his yoke will be taken away from your neck, and the yoke will decay at the appearance of the oil
    28: He will approach Aiath; he will cross into Migron; he will entrust his vessels to Michmash
    29: They have passed through in haste; Geba is our seat; Ramah was stupefied; Gibeah of Saul fled
    30: Neigh with your voice, daughter of Gallim; pay attention, Laishah, impoverished woman of Anathoth
    31: Madmenah has moved away; be strengthened, you inhabitants of Gebim
    32: It is still daylight, so stand at Nob. He will shake his hand against the mountain of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem
    33: Behold, the sovereign Lord of hosts will crush the little bottle of wine with terror, and the exalted in stature will be cut down, and the lofty will be brought low
    34: And the dense forest will be overturned with iron. And Lebanon, with its exalted ones, will fall

  Chapter 11.

    1: And a rod will go forth from the root of Jesse, and a flower will ascend from his root
    2: And the Spirit of the Lord will rest upon him: the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and fortitude, the spirit of knowledge and piety
    3: And he will be filled with the spirit of the fear of the Lord. He will not judge according to the sight of the eyes, nor reprove according to the hearing of the ears
    4: Instead, he will judge the poor with justice, and he will reprove the meek of the earth with fairness. And he will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and he will slay the impious with the spirit of his lips
    5: And justice will be the belt around his waist. And faith will be the warrior’s belt at his side
    6: The wolf will dwell with the lamb; and the leopard will lie down with the kid; the calf and the lion and the sheep will abide together; and a little boy will drive them
    7: The calf and the bear will feed together; their young ones will rest together. And the lion will eat straw like the ox
    8: And a breastfeeding infant will play above the lair of the asp. And a child who has been weaned will thrust his hand into the den of the king snake
    9: They will not harm, and they will not kill, on all my holy mountain. For the earth has been filled with the knowledge of the Lord, like the waters covering the sea
    10: In that day, the root of Jesse, who stands as a sign among the people, the same the Gentiles shall beseech, and his sepulcher will be glorious
    11: And this shall be in that day: the Lord will send forth his hand a second time to take possession of the remnant of his people who will be left behind: from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Ethiopia, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea
    12: And he will lift up a sign to the nations, and he will gather together the fugitives of Israel, and he will collect the dispersed of Judah from the four regions of the earth
    13: And the envy of Ephraim will be taken away, and the enemies of Judah will perish. Ephraim will not be a rival to Judah, and Judah will not fight against Ephraim
    14: And they will fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines through the sea; together they will plunder the sons of the east. Idumea and Moab will be under the rule of their hand, and the sons of Ammon will be obedient
    15: And the Lord will desolate the tongue of the sea of Egypt. And he will lift up his hand over the river, with the strength of his Spirit; and he will strike it, in its seven streams, so that they may cross through it in their shoes
    16: And there will be a way for the remnant of my people, who will be left behind by the Assyrians: just as there was for Israel in the day that he ascended from the land of Egypt

  Chapter 12.

    1: And you will say in that day: “I will confess to you, O Lord, because you have been angry with me; but your fury has been turned away, and you have consoled me
    2: Behold, God is my savior, I will act faithfully, and I will not be afraid. For the Lord is my strength and my praise, and he has become my salvation.
    3: You will draw water with gladness from the fountains of the Savior
    4: And you will say in that day: “Confess the Lord, and invoke his name! Make his plans known among the peoples! Remember that his name is exalted
    5: Sing to the Lord, for he has acted magnificently! Announce it to the whole world
    6: Exult and give praise, O habitation of Zion! For the Great One, the Holy One of Israel, is in your midst!

End of day 207.