Day 91:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And so, all of Israel was numbered. And the sum of them was written in the book of the kings of Israel and of Judah. And they were taken away to Babylon because of their transgression
    2: Now the first who lived in their possessions and in their cities were Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, and the temple servants
    3: Staying in Jerusalem were some from the sons of Judah, and from the sons of Benjamin, and also from the sons of Ephraim and of Manasseh
    4: Uthai, the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, from the sons of Perez, the son of Judah
    5: And from Shiloni: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons
    6: Then from the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brothers, six hundred ninety
    7: And from the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah
    8: and Ibneiah, the son of Jeroham; and Elah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; and Meshullam, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah
    9: and their brothers according to their families, nine hundred fifty-six. All these were leaders of their kindred, according to the houses of their fathers
    10: And from the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, and Jachin
    11: and also Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the high priest of the house of God
    12: then Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah; and Maasai, the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer
    13: and also their brothers, leaders according to their families, one thousand seven hundred sixty, very strong experienced men, for the work of the ministry in the house of God
    14: Then from the Levites: Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari
    15: and also Bakbakkar the carpenter; and Galal; and Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph
    16: and Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah, the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived at the entrance to Netophah
    17: Now the gatekeepers were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman; and their brother Shallum was the leader
    18: For until that time, at the gate of the king to the east, the sons of Levi served in their turns
    19: Truly, Shallum, the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, with his brothers and his father’s house, these Korahites, were over the works of the ministry of keeping the vestibules of the tabernacle. And their families, in turns, were keepers of the entrance to the camp of the Lord
    20: Now Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, was their ruler before the Lord
    21: But Zechariah, the son of Meshelemiah, was the keeper of the gate of the tabernacle of the testimony
    22: All these, chosen as porters for the gates, were two hundred twelve. And they were recorded in their own towns, those whom David, and the seer Samuel, appointed, in their faith
    23: as with them, so also with their sons, at the gates of the house of the Lord and the tabernacle, by their turns
    24: At the four directions, there were gatekeepers, that is, at the east, and at the west, and at the north, and at the south
    25: Now their brothers were staying in the villages, and they arrived on their Sabbaths, from time to time
    26: To these four Levites were entrusted the entire number of the gatekeepers, and they were over the chambers and storehouses of the house of the Lord
    27: And they remained in their watches, on all sides of the temple of the Lord, so that, when the time had arrived, they might open the gates in the morning
    28: Some from their kindred were also over the vessels of the ministry. For the vessels were both carried in and carried out according to number
    29: Some of them also were entrusted with the equipment of the sanctuary; they were in charge of the fine wheat flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the aromatics
    30: Now the sons of the priests composed the ointments from the aromatics
    31: And Mattithiah, a Levite, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was in charge of those things that were cooked in a frying pan
    32: Now some of the sons of Kohath, their brothers, were over the bread of the presence, so that they might continually prepare it new for each Sabbath
    33: These are the leaders of the singing men, according to the families of the Levites, who were dwelling in the chambers, so that they might carry out their ministry continually, day and night
    34: The heads of the Levites, leaders according to their families, abode in Jerusalem
    35: Now in Gibeon, there lived Jeiel, the father of Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah
    36: His firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab
    37: as well as Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth
    38: Then Mikloth conceived Shimeam. These lived opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers
    39: Now Ner conceived Kish, and Kish conceived Saul. And Saul conceived Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal
    40: And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal conceived Micah
    41: Now the sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz
    42: And Ahaz conceived Jarah. And Jarah conceived Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. Then Zimri conceived Moza
    43: Truly, Moza conceived Binea, whose son, Rephaiah, conceived Eleasah, from of whom was born Azel
    44: Now Azel had six sons, whose names are: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, Hanan. These are the sons of Azel

  Chapter 10.

    1: Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from the Philistines, and they fell down wounded on mount Gilboa
    2: And when the Philistines had draw near, pursuing Saul and his sons, they struck down Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul
    3: And the battle grew heavy against Saul. And the archers found him, and they wounded him with arrows
    4: And Saul said to his armor bearer: “Unsheathe your sword and kill me. Otherwise, these uncircumcised men may arrive and mock me.” But his armor bearer was not willing, having been struck with fear. And so, Saul took hold of his sword, and he fell upon it
    5: And when his armor bearer had seen this, specifically, that Saul was dead, he now fell on his sword also, and he died
    6: Therefore, Saul died, and his three sons passed away, and his entire house fell, together
    7: And when the men of Israel who were living in the plains had seen this, they fled. And since Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and were dispersed, here and there. And the Philistines arrived and lived among them
    8: Then, on the next day, when the Philistines were taking away the spoils of the slain, they found Saul and his sons, lying on mount Gilboa
    9: And when they had despoiled him, and had cut off his head, and had stripped his armor, they sent these things into their land, so that they would be carried around and displayed in the temples of the idols and to the people
    10: But his armor they consecrated in the shrine of their god, and his head they affixed in the temple of Dagon
    11: When the men of Jabesh Gilead had heard this, specifically, all that the Philistines had done concerning Saul
    12: each one of the valiant men rose up, and they took the bodies of Saul and of his sons. And they brought them to Jabesh. And they buried their bones under the oak that was in Jabesh. And they fasted for seven days
    13: Thus did Saul die for his iniquities, because he betrayed the commandment of the Lord which he had instructed, and did not keep it. And moreover, he even consulted a woman diviner
    14: for he did not trust in the Lord. Because of this, he caused his death, and he transferred his kingdom to David, the son of Jesse

  Chapter 11.

    1: Then all of Israel was gathered to David at Hebron, saying: “We are your bone and your flesh
    2: Also, yesterday and the day before, when Saul still reigned, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel. For the Lord your God said to you: ‘You shall pasture my people Israel, and you shall be the leader over them.’ 
    3: Therefore, all those greater by birth of Israel went to the king at Hebron. And David formed a pact with them before the Lord. And they anointed him king over Israel, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke by the hand of Samuel
    4: Then David and all of Israel went to Jerusalem. The same is Jebus, where the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were
    5: And those who were living in Jebus said to David: “You shall not enter here.” But David seized the stronghold of Zion, which is the city of David
    6: And he said, “Whoever shall strike the Jebusites first, shall be ruler and commander.” And so Joab, the son of Zeruiah, ascended first, and he was made the leader
    7: Then David lived in the stronghold, and for this reason it was called the City of David
    8: And he built up the city all around, from Millo even to every side. But Joab built the rest of the city
    9: And David continued advancing and increasing, and the Lord of hosts was with him
    10: These are the leaders of the strong men of David, who assisted him, so that he would become king over all of Israel, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke to Israel
    11: And this is the number of the robust of David: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, leader among the thirty. He lifted up his spear over three hundred, who were wounded at one time
    12: And after him, there was Eleazar, the son of his uncle, an Ahohite, who was among the three powerful ones
    13: He was with David in Pasdammim, when the Philistines were gathered to that place for battle. Now the field of that region was full of barley, but the people had fled from the face of the Philistines
    14: These men stood in the midst of the field, and they defended it. And when they had struck down the Philistines, the Lord gave a great salvation to his people
    15: Then three from the thirty leaders descended to the rock where David was, to the cave of Adullam, when the Philistines had made camp in the Valley of the Rephaim
    16: Now David was in a stronghold, and a garrison of the Philistines was in Bethlehem
    17: And then David desired and said, “O if only someone would give me water from the well of Bethlehem, which is at the gate!
    18: Therefore, these three broke through to the midst of the camp of the Philistines, and they drew water from the well of Bethlehem, which was at the gate. And they took it to David, so that he might drink. But he was not willing; and instead, he offered it as a libation to the Lord
    19: saying: “Far be it from me, that I would do this in the sight of my God, and that I would drink the blood of these men. For at the peril of their own lives, they brought the water to me.” And for this reason, he was not willing to drink. The three most powerful accomplished these things
    20: Also, Abishai, the brother of Joab, was the leader of the three, and he lifted up his spear against three hundred, who were wounded. And he was most renown among the three
    21: and he was famous among the second three and their leader. Yet truly, he did not reach as far as the first three
    22: Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, from Kabzeel, was a very mature man, who had accomplished many deeds. He struck down the two lions of God from Moab. And he descended and killed a lion in the middle of a pit, in the time of snow
    23: And he struck down an Egyptian man, whose stature was five cubits, and who had a spear like a weaver’s beam. And yet he descended to him with a staff. And he seized the spear that he was holding in his hand. And he killed him with his own spear
    24: These things were done by Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, who was most renowned among the three robust ones
    25: the first among the thirty. Yet truly, he did not reach as far as the three. Then David placed him beside his ear
    26: Moreover, the strongest men of the army were Asahel, the brother of Joab; and Elhanan, the son of his uncle, from Bethlehem
    27: Shammoth, a Harorite; Helez, a Pelonite
    28: Ira, the son of Ikkesh, a Tekoite; Abiezer, an Anathothite
    29: Sibbecai, a Hushathite; Ilai, an Ahohite
    30: Maharai, a Netophathite; Heled, the son of Baanah, a Netophathite
    31: Ithai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin; Benaiah, a Pirathonite
    32: Hurai, from the torrent Gaash; Abiel, an Arbathite; Azmaveth, a Baharumite; Eliahba, a Shaalbonite
    33: The sons of Hashem, a Gizonite: Jonathan, the son of Shagee, a Hararite
    34: Ahiam, the son of Sachar, a Hararite
    35: Eliphal, the son of Ur
    36: Hepher, a Mecherathite; Ahijah, a Pelonite
    37: Hezro, a Carmelite; Naharai, the son of Ezbai
    38: Joel, the brother of Nathan; Mibhar, the son of Hagri
    39: Zelek, an Ammonite; Naarai, a Beerothite, the armor bearer of Joab, the son of Zeruiah
    40: Ira, an Ithrite; Gareb, an Ithrite
    41: Uriah, a Hittite; Zabad, the son of Ahlai
    42: Adina, the son of Shiza, a Reubenite, the leader of the Reubenites, and thirty who were with him
    43: Hanan, the son of Maacah; and Joshaphat, a Mithnite
    44: Uzzia, an Ashterathite; Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham, an Aroerite
    45: Jediael, the son of Shimri; and Joha, his brother, a Tizite
    46: Eliel, a Mahavite; and Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam; and Ithmah, a Moabite; Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel from Mezobaite

  Chapter 12.

    1: Also, these went to David at Ziklag, while he was still fleeing from Saul, the son of Kish. And they were very strong and distinguished fighters
    2: bending the bow, and using either hand in casting stones with slings, and shooting arrows. From the brothers of Saul, out of Benjamin
    3: the leader was Ahiezer, with Joash, sons of Shemaah from Gibeah, and Jeziel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah and Jehu, from Anathoth
    4: Also, there was Ishmaiah, from Gibeon, the strongest among the thirty and over the thirty; Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad, from Gederah
    5: and Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah, the Haruphites
    6: Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, from Carehim
    7: and also Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham, from Gedor
    8: Then too, from Gad, there went over to David, when he was hiding in the desert, very robust men, who were excellent fighters, taking hold of shield and spear; their faces were like the faces of a lion, and they were swift like the roe deer upon the mountains
    9: Ezer was the leader, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third
    10: Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth
    11: Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh
    12: Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth
    13: Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh
    14: These were from the sons of Gad, leaders of the army. The least was in charge of one hundred soldiers, and the greatest was in charge of one thousand
    15: These are the ones who crossed over the Jordan in the first month, when it is accustomed to overflow its banks. And they put to flight all those who were staying in the valleys, to the eastern region and to the west
    16: Then some from Benjamin and from Judah also arrived at the stronghold where David was staying
    17: And David went out to meet them, and he said: “If you have arrived peacefully, so as to be a help to me, may my heart be joined to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, though I have no iniquity in my hands, may the God of our fathers see and judge.
    18: Truly, the Spirit clothed Amasai, the leader among the thirty, and he said: “O David, we are yours! O son of Jesse, we are for you! Peace, peace to you, and peace to your helpers. For your God helps you.” Therefore, David received them, and he appointed them as leaders of troops
    19: Moreover, some from Manasseh crossed over to David, when he went forth with the Philistines against Saul, so that he might fight. But he did not fight with them. For the leaders of the Philistines, taking counsel, sent him back, saying, “To the peril of our own heads, he will return to his lord, Saul.
    20: And so, when he returned to Ziklag, some fled over to him from Manasseh: Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Adnah, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, leaders of thousands in Manasseh
    21: These offered assistance to David against the robbers. For all were very strong men, and they became leaders in the army
    22: Then, too, some came to David throughout each day, in order to help him, until they became a great number, like the army of God
    23: Now this is the number of the leaders of the army who went to David when he was at Hebron, so that they might transfer the kingdom of Saul to him, in accord with the word of the Lord
    24: the sons of Judah, carrying shield and spear, six thousand eight hundred, equipped for battle
    25: from the sons of Simeon, very strong men for the fight, seven thousand one hundred
    26: from the sons of Levi, four thousand six hundred
    27: as well as Jehoiada, a leader from the stock of Aaron, and with him three thousand seven hundred
    28: and then Zadok, a youth of distinguished qualities, and the house of his father, twenty-two leaders
    29: and from the sons of Benjamin, brothers of Saul, three thousand, for still a great part of them were following the house of Saul
    30: Then from the sons of Ephraim, there were twenty thousand eight hundred, very strong and robust men, renowned among their kindred
    31: And out of the one half tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand, each by their names, went forth so that they might appoint David as king
    32: Also, from the sons of Issachar, there were learned men, who knew each of the times, in order to anticipate what Israel ought to do, two hundred leaders. And all the remainder of the tribe were following their counsel
    33: Then, from Zebulun, there were those who went forth to battle, and who were standing in a battle line, prepared with the weapons of warfare; these fifty thousand arrived to assist, without duplicity of heart
    34: And from Naphtali, there were one thousand leaders; and with them were thirty-seven thousand, prepared with shield and spear
    35: And then from Dan, there were twenty-eight thousand six hundred, ready for battle
    36: And from Asher, there were forty thousand, going forth to fight, and summoned to the battle line
    37: Then, across the Jordan, there were, from the sons of Reuben, and from Gad, and from the one half tribe of Manasseh, one hundred twenty thousand, prepared with the weapons of warfare
    38: All these men of war, equipped for the fight, went with a perfect heart to Hebron, so that they might appoint David as king over all of Israel. Then, too, all the remainder of Israel were of one heart, so that they might make David king
    39: And they were in that place with David for three days, eating and drinking. For their brothers had made preparations for them
    40: Moreover, those who were near to them, even as far as Issachar, and Zebulun, and Naphtali, were bringing, on donkeys and camels and mules and oxen, bread for their provisions, with grain, dried figs, dried grapes, wine, oil, and oxen and sheep, with all abundance. For indeed, there was joy in Israel

End of day 91.