Day 2:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: This is the book of the lineage of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him to the likeness of God
    2: He created them, male and female; and he blessed them. And he called their name Adam, in the day when they were created
    3: Then Adam lived for one hundred and thirty years. And then he conceived a son in his own image and likeness, and he called his name Seth
    4: And after he conceived Seth, the days of Adam that passed were eight hundred years. And he conceived sons and daughters
    5: And all the time that passed while Adam lived was nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died
    6: Seth likewise lived for one hundred and five years, and then he conceived Enos
    7: And after he conceived Enos, Seth lived for eight hundred and seven years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    8: And all the days of Seth that passed were nine hundred and twelve years, and then he died
    9: In truth, Enos lived ninety years, and then he conceived Cainan
    10: After his birth, he lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    11: And all the days of Enos that passed were nine hundred and five years, and then he died
    12: Likewise, Cainan lived seventy years, and then he conceived Mahalalel
    13: And after he conceived Mahalalel, Cainan lived for eight hundred and forty years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    14: And all the days of Cainan that passed were nine hundred and ten years, and then he died
    15: And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and then he conceived Jared
    16: And after he conceived Jared, Mahalalel lived for eight hundred and thirty years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    17: And all the days of Mahalalel that passed were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and then he died
    18: And Jared lived for one hundred and sixty-two years, and then he conceived Enoch
    19: And after he conceived Enoch, Jared lived for eight hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    20: And all the days of Jared that passed were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and then he died
    21: Now Enoch lived for sixty-five years, and then he conceived Methuselah
    22: And Enoch walked with God. And after he conceived Methuselah, he lived for three hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    23: And all the days of Enoch that passed were three hundred and sixty-five years
    24: And he walked with God, and then he was seen no more, because God took him
    25: Likewise, Methuselah lived for one hundred and eighty-seven years, and then he conceived Lamech
    26: And after he conceived Lamech, Methuselah lived for seven hundred and eighty-two years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    27: And all the days of Methuselah that passed were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died
    28: Then Lamech lived for one hundred and eighty-two years, and he conceived a son
    29: And he called his name Noah, saying, “This one will console us from the works and hardships of our hands, in the land that the Lord has cursed.
    30: And after he conceived Noah, Lamech lived for five hundred and ninety-five years, and he conceived sons and daughters
    31: And all the days of Lamech that passed were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died. In truth, when Noah was five hundred years old, he conceived Shem, Ham, and Japheth

  Chapter 6.

    1: And when men began to be multiplied upon the earth, and daughters were born to them
    2: the sons of God, seeing that the daughters of men were beautiful, took to themselves wives from all whom they chose
    3: And God said: “My spirit shall not remain in man forever, because he is flesh. And so his days shall be one hundred and twenty years.
    4: Now giants were upon the earth in those days. For after the sons of God went in to the daughters of men, and they conceived, these became the powerful ones of ancient times, men of renown
    5: Then God, seeing that the wickedness of men was great upon the earth and that every thought of their heart was intent upon evil at all times
    6: repented that he had made man on the earth. And being touched inwardly with a sorrow of heart
    7: he said, “I will eliminate man, whom I have created, from the face of the earth, from man to other living things, from animals even to the flying things of the air. For it grieves me that I have made them.
    8: Yet truly, Noah found grace before the Lord
    9: These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man, and yet he was predominate among his generations, for he walked with God
    10: And he conceived three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth
    11: Yet the earth was corrupted before the eyes of God, and it was filled with iniquity
    12: And when God had seen that the earth had been corrupted, (indeed, all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth
    13: he said to Noah: “The end of all flesh has arrived in my sight. The earth has been filled with iniquity by their presence, and I will destroy them, along with the earth
    14: Make yourself an ark from smoothed wood. You shall make little dwelling places in the ark, and you shall smear pitch on the interior and exterior
    15: And thus shall you make it: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits
    16: You shall make a window in the ark, and you shall complete it within a cubit of the top. Then you shall set the door of the ark at its side. You shall make in it: a lower part, upper rooms, and a third level
    17: Behold, I shall bring the waters of a great flood upon the earth, so as to put to death all flesh in which there is the breath of life under heaven. All things that are on the earth shall be consumed
    18: And I shall establish my covenant with you, and you shall enter the ark, you and your sons, your wife and the wives of your sons with you
    19: And from every living thing of all that is flesh, you shall lead pairs into the ark, so that they may survive with you: from the male sex and the female
    20: from birds, according to their kind, and from beasts, in their kind, and from among all animals on earth, according to their kind; pairs from each shall enter with you, so that they may be able to live
    21: Therefore, you shall take with you from all the foods that are able to be eaten, and you shall carry these with you. And these shall be used as food, some for you, and the rest for them.
    22: And so Noah did all things just as God had instructed him

  Chapter 7.

    1: And the Lord said to him: “Enter the ark, you and all your house. For I have seen you to be just in my sight, within this generation
    2: From all the clean animals, take seven and seven, the male and the female. Yet truly, from animals that are unclean, take two and two, the male and the female
    3: But also from the birds of the air, take seven and seven, the male and the female, so that offspring may be saved upon the face of the whole earth
    4: For from that point, and after seven days, I will rain upon the earth for forty days and forty nights. And I will wipe away every substance that I have made, from the surface of the earth.
    5: Therefore, Noah did all things just as the Lord had commanded him
    6: And he was six hundred years old when the waters of the great flood inundated the earth
    7: And Noah entered into the ark, and his sons, his wife, and the wives of his sons with him, because of the waters of the great flood
    8: And from the animals both clean and unclean, and from the birds, and from everything that moves upon the earth
    9: two by two they were brought into the ark to Noah, male and female, just as the Lord had instructed Noah
    10: And when seven days had passed, the waters of the great flood inundated the earth
    11: In the six hundredth year of the life of Noah, in the second month, in the seventeenth day of the month, all the fountains of the great abyss were released, and the floodgates of heaven were opened
    12: And rain came upon the earth for forty days and forty nights
    13: On the very same day, Noah and his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and his wife and the three wives of his sons with them, entered the ark
    14: They and every animal according to its kind, and all the cattle in their kind, and everything that moves upon the earth in their kind, and every flying thing according to its kind, all the birds and all that can fly
    15: entered the ark to Noah, two by two out of all that is flesh, in which there was the breath of life
    16: And those that entered went in male and female, from all that is flesh, just as God had instructed him. And then the Lord closed him in from the outside
    17: And the great flood occurred for forty days upon the earth. And the waters were increased, and they lifted the ark high above the land
    18: For they overflowed greatly, and they filled everything on the surface of the earth. And then the ark was carried across the waters
    19: And the waters prevailed beyond measure across the earth. And all the lofty mountains under the whole heaven were covered
    20: The water was fifteen cubits higher than the mountains which it covered
    21: And all flesh was consumed which moved upon the earth: flying things, animals, wild beasts, and all moving things that crawl upon the ground. And all men
    22: and everything in which there is the breath of life on earth, died
    23: And he wiped away all substance that was upon the earth, from man to animal, the crawling things just as much as the flying things of the air. And they were wiped away from the earth. But only Noah remained, and those who were with him in the ark
    24: And the waters possessed the earth for one hundred and fifty days

  Chapter 8.

    1: Then God remembered Noah, and all living things, and all the cattle, which were with him in the ark, and he brought a wind across the earth, and the waters were diminished
    2: And the fountains of the abyss and the floodgates of heaven were closed. And the rain from heaven was restrained
    3: And the waters were restored to their coming and going from the earth. And they began to diminish after one hundred and fifty days
    4: And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, upon the mountains of Armenia
    5: Yet in truth, the waters were departing and decreasing until the tenth month. For in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tips of the mountains appeared
    6: And when forty days had passed, Noah, opening the window that he had made in the ark, sent forth a raven
    7: which went forth and did not return, until the waters were dried up across the earth
    8: Likewise, he sent forth a dove after him, in order to see if the waters had now ceased upon the face of the earth
    9: But when she did not find a place where her foot might rest, she returned to him in the ark. For the waters were upon the whole earth. And he extended his hand and caught her, and he brought her into the ark
    10: And then, having waited a further seven days, he again sent forth the dove out of the ark
    11: And she came to him in the evening, carrying in her mouth an olive branch with green leaves. Noah then understood that the waters had ceased upon the earth
    12: And nevertheless, he waited another seven days. And he sent forth the dove, which no longer returned to him
    13: Therefore, in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the waters were diminished upon the earth. And Noah, opening the cover of the ark, gazed out and saw that the surface of the earth had become dry
    14: In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was made dry
    15: Then God spoke to Noah, saying
    16: “Go out of the ark, you and your wife, your sons and the wives of your sons with you
    17: Bring out with you all the living things that are with you, all that is flesh: as with the birds, so also with the wild beasts and all the animals that move upon the earth. And enter upon the land: increase and multiply upon it.
    18: And so Noah and his sons went out, and his wife and the wives of his sons with him
    19: Then also all living things, and the cattle, and the animals that move upon the earth, according to their kinds, departed from the ark
    20: Then Noah built an altar to the Lord. And, taking from each of the cattle and birds that were clean, he offered holocausts upon the altar
    21: And the Lord smelled the sweet odor and said: “I will no longer curse the earth because of man. For the feelings and thoughts of the heart of man are prone to evil from his youth. Therefore, I will no longer pierce every living soul as I have done
    22: All the days of the earth, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, night and day, will not cease.

End of day 2.