Day 94:

Reading 1-Chronicles, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Now Satan rose up against Israel, and he incited David so that he would number Israel
    2: And David said to Joab and to the leaders of the people: “Go, and number Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan. And bring me the number, so that I may know it.
    3: And Joab responded: “May the Lord increase his people a hundred times more than they are. But, my lord the king, are they not all your servants? Why would my lord seek this thing, which may be imputed as a sin to Israel?
    4: But the word of the king prevailed instead. And Joab went away, and he traveled around, through all of Israel. And he returned to Jerusalem
    5: And he gave to David the number of those whom he had surveyed. And the entire number of Israel was found to be one million and one hundred thousand men who could draw the sword; but from Judah, there were four hundred and seventy thousand men of war
    6: But Levi and Benjamin he did not number. For Joab executed the orders of the king unwillingly
    7: Then God was displeased with what had been ordered, and so he struck Israel
    8: And David said to God: “I have sinned exceedingly in doing this. I beg you take away the iniquity of your servant. For I have acted unwisely.
    9: And the Lord spoke to Gad, the seer of David, saying
    10: “Go, and speak to David, and tell him: Thus says the Lord: I give to you the option of three things. Choose the one that you will want, and I will do it to you.
    11: And when Gad had gone to David, he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Choose what you will want
    12: Either three years of famine, or three months for you to flee from your enemies, unable to escape from their sword, or three days for the sword of the Lord and a pestilence to turn within the land, with the Angel of the Lord killing in every part of Israel. Now therefore, see what I should respond to him who sent me.
    13: And David said to Gad: “There are difficulties pressing upon me from every side. But it is better for me to fall into the hands of the Lord, for his mercies are many, than into the hands of men.
    14: Therefore, the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel. And there fell from Israel seventy thousand men
    15: Also, he sent an Angel to Jerusalem, so that he might strike it. And while he was striking, the Lord saw and took pity over the magnitude of the harm. And he commanded the Angel who was striking: “It is enough. Now let your hand cease.” And the Angel of the Lord was standing beside the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite
    16: And David, lifting up his eyes, saw the Angel of the Lord, standing between heaven and earth with a drawn sword in his hand, turned toward Jerusalem. And both he and those greater by birth, being clothed in haircloth, fell prone upon the ground
    17: And David said to God: “Am I not the one who ordered that the people be numbered? It is I who sinned; it is I who did evil. This flock, what does it deserve? O Lord my God, I beg you to let your hand be turned against me and against the house of my father. But let not your people be struck down.
    18: Then the Angel of the Lord instructed Gad to tell David that he should ascend and build an altar to the Lord God on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite
    19: Therefore, David ascended, in accord with the word of Gad, which he had spoken to him in the name of the Lord
    20: Now when Ornan had looked up and seen the Angel, he and his four sons hid themselves. For at that time, he was threshing wheat upon the floor
    21: Then, as David was approaching Ornan, Ornan saw him, and he went out from the threshing floor to meet him. And he reverenced him prone on the ground
    22: And David said to him: “Give this place of your threshing floor to me, so that I may build an altar to the Lord upon it. And you shall accept from me as much money as it is worth, so that the plague may cease from the people.
    23: But Ornan said to David: “Take it, and may my lord the king do whatever pleases him. Moreover, I give the oxen also as a holocaust, and the plow for wood, and the wheat for a sacrifice. I will offer all freely.
    24: And king David said to him: “By no means shall it be so. Instead, I will give money to you, as much as it is worth. For I must not take it from you, and thereby offer to the Lord holocausts that cost nothing.
    25: Therefore, David gave Ornan, for the place, the very just weight of six hundred shekels of gold
    26: And he built an altar to the Lord there. And he offered holocausts and peace offerings, and he called upon the Lord. And he heeded him by sending fire from heaven upon the altar of the holocaust
    27: And the Lord instructed the Angel, and he turned his sword back into its sheath
    28: Then, seeing that the Lord had heeded him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, David immediately immolated victims there
    29: But the tabernacle of the Lord, which Moses had made in the desert, and the altar of holocausts, were at that time on the high place of Gibeon
    30: And David was unable to go to the altar, so that he might pray to God there. For he had been struck with an exceedingly great fear, seeing the sword of the Angel of the Lord

  Chapter 22.

    1: And David said, “This is the house of God, and this is the altar for the holocaust of Israel.
    2: And he instructed them to gather all the new converts from the land of Israel. And from these he appointed stoneworkers, to hew stones and to polish them, so that he might build the house of God
    3: Also, David prepared very much iron to use for the nails of the gates, and for the seams and joints, as well as an immeasurable weight of brass
    4: Also, the cedar trees, which the Sidonians and Tyrians had transported to David, were not able to be counted
    5: And David said: “My son Solomon is a young and tender boy. But the house that I desire to be built to the Lord ought to be so great that it is renowned in every region. Therefore, I will prepare what will be necessary for him.” And for this reason, before his death, he prepared all the expenses
    6: And he called for Solomon, his son. And he instructed him to build a house to the Lord, the God of Israel
    7: And David said to Solomon: “My son, it was my will that I build a house to the name of the Lord my God
    8: But the word of the Lord came to me, saying: ‘You have shed much blood, and you have battled in many wars. You are not able to build a house to my name, so great was the shedding of blood before me
    9: The son who shall be born to you will be a very quiet man. For I will cause him to have rest from all his enemies on every side. And for this reason, he shall be called Peaceful. And I will grant peace and tranquility to Israel during all his days
    10: He shall build a house to my name. And he shall be a son to me, and I will be a father to him. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel unto eternity.
    11: Now then, my son, may the Lord be with you, and may you prosper and build a house to the Lord your God, just as he has spoken concerning you
    12: Also, may the Lord give you prudence and understanding, so that you may be able to rule Israel and to guard the law of the Lord your God
    13: For then you will be able to advance, if you keep the commandments and judgments that the Lord instructed Moses to teach to Israel. Be strengthened and act manfully. You should not fear, and you should not dread
    14: Behold, in my poverty I have prepared the expenses for the house of the Lord: one hundred thousand talents of gold, and one million of talents of silver. Yet truly, there is no measuring the brass and the iron. For their magnitude is beyond numbering. And I have prepared the timber and the stones for the entire project
    15: Also, you have very many artisans: stoneworkers, and builders of walls, and craftsmen of wood, and those most prudent in doing the work of every art
    16: with gold and silver, and with brass and iron, of which there is no number. Therefore, rise up and act. And the Lord will be with you.
    17: Also, David instructed all the leaders of Israel, so that they would assist his son Solomon
    18: saying: “You discern that the Lord your God is with you, and that he has given you rest on all sides, and that he has delivered all your enemies into your hands, and that the land has been subdued before the Lord and before his people
    19: Therefore, offer your hearts and your souls, so that you seek the Lord your God. And rise up and build a sanctuary to the Lord God, so that the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and the vessels consecrated to the Lord, may be brought into the house that is built to the name of the Lord.

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then David, being old and full of days, appointed his son Solomon as king over Israel
    2: And he gathered together all the leaders of Israel, with the priests as well as the Levites
    3: And the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and upward. And there were found thirty-eight thousand men
    4: Of these, twenty-four thousand were chosen and distributed to the ministry of the house of the Lord. Then six thousand were overseers and judges
    5: Moreover, four thousand were porters. And the same number were the singers of psalms to the Lord, with the musical instruments which he had made for the music
    6: And David distributed them into courses according to the sons of Levi, specifically, Gershom, and Kohath, and Merari
    7: The sons of Gershom: Ladan and Shimei
    8: The sons of Ladan: the leader Jahiel, and Zetham, and Joel, three
    9: The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, and Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the leaders of the families of Ladan
    10: Then the sons of Shimei: Jahath, and Zizah, and Jeush, and Beriah. These were the sons of Shimei, four
    11: Now Jahath was first, Zizah second, but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, and for this reason they were reckoned as one family and one house
    12: The sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel, four
    13: The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Now Aaron was separated so that he might minister in the Holy of Holies, he and his sons forever, and so that he might burn incense to the Lord, according to his rite, and so that he might bless his name in perpetuity
    14: The sons of Moses, the man of God, were also numbered in the tribe of Levi
    15: The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer
    16: The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the first
    17: Now the sons of Eliezer were Rehabiah the first. And there were no other sons for Eliezer. But the sons of Rehabiah were multiplied exceedingly
    18: The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the first
    19: The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth
    20: The sons of Uzziel: Micah the first, Isshiah the second
    21: The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish
    22: Then Eleazar died, and had no sons, but only daughters. And so the sons of Kish, their brothers, married them
    23: The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three
    24: These are the sons of Levi, in their kindred and families, leaders in turns, and the number of each of the heads who were doing the works of the ministry of the house of the Lord, from twenty years of age and upward
    25: For David said: “The Lord, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people, and a habitation in Jerusalem even unto eternity
    26: Neither shall it be the office of the Levites any more to carry the tabernacle with all its equipment for use in the ministry.
    27: Also, according to the last precepts of David, the sons of Levi shall be counted by number from twenty years of age and upward
    28: And they shall be under the hand of the sons of Aaron, in the care of the house of the Lord, in the vestibule, and in the chambers, and in the place of purification, and in the sanctuary, and in all the works of the ministry of the temple of the Lord
    29: But the priests shall be over the bread of the presence, and the sacrifice of fine wheat flour, and the unleavened cakes, and the frying pan, and the roasting, and over every weight and measure
    30: Yet truly, the Levites shall stand to confess and to sing to the Lord, in the morning, and similarly in the evening
    31: as much in the oblation of the holocausts of the Lord, as in the Sabbaths and new moons and other solemnities, according to the number and ceremonies for each and every matter, perpetually before the Lord
    32: And let them keep the observances of the tabernacle of the covenant, and the rituals of the sanctuary, and the observance of the sons of Aaron, their brothers, so that they may minister in the house of the Lord

  Chapter 24.

    1: Now these were the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar
    2: But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and without children. And so Eleazar and Ithamar exercised the priestly office
    3: And David distributed them, that is, Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their courses and ministry
    4: And there were found many more of the sons of Eleazar among the leading men, than of the sons of Ithamar. Therefore, he divided them so that there were, of the sons of Eleazar, sixteen leaders by their families, and of the sons of Ithamar eight by their families and houses
    5: Then he divided among them, in both families, by lot. For there were leaders of the sanctuary and leaders of God, as much from the sons of Eleazar as from the sons of Ithamar
    6: And the scribe Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel, a Levite, wrote these down before the king and the leaders, with Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and also the leaders of the priestly and Levitical families. And there was one house, which was preeminent over the others, that of Eleazar; and there was another house, which had the others under it, that of Ithamar
    7: Now the first lot went forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah
    8: the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim
    9: the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin
    10: the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah
    11: the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah
    12: the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim
    13: the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab
    14: the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer
    15: the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez
    16: the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel
    17: the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul
    18: the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah
    19: These were their courses according to their ministries, so that they would enter into the house of the Lord in accord with their practice, under the hand of Aaron, their father, just as the Lord, the God of Israel, had instructed
    20: Now of the sons of Levi who were remaining, there were Shubael, from the sons of Amram, and Jehdeiah, from the sons of Shubael
    21: Also, there were Isshiah, the leader from the sons of Rehabiah
    22: and truly Shelomoth, the son of Izhar, and Jahath, the son of Shelomoth
    23: and his son, Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth
    24: The son of Uzziel was Micah. The son of Micah was Shamir
    25: The brother of Micah was Isshiah. And the son of Isshiah was Zechariah
    26: The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The son of Uzziah was Beno
    27: Also, the son of Merari: Uzziah, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Hebri
    28: In addition, the son of Mahli was Eleazar, who had no children
    29: Truly, the son of Kish was Jerahmeel
    30: The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of Levi according to the houses of their families
    31: And they also cast lots concerning their brothers, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the leaders of the priestly and Levitical families, as much concerning the elder as the younger. The lot divided all things equitably

End of day 94.