Day 315:

Reading Romans, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Therefore, having been justified by faith, let us be at peace with God, through our Lord Jesus Christ
    2: For through him we also have access by faith to this grace, in which we stand firm, and to glory, in the hope of the glory of the sons of God
    3: And not only that, but we also find glory in tribulation, knowing that tribulation exercises patience
    4: and patience leads to proving, yet truly proving leads to hope
    5: but hope is not unfounded, because the love of God is poured forth in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us
    6: Yet why did Christ, while we were still infirm, at the proper time, suffer death for the impious
    7: Now someone might barely be willing to die for the sake of justice, for example, perhaps someone might dare to die for the sake of a good man
    8: But God demonstrates his love for us in that, while we were yet sinners, at the proper time
    9: Christ died for us. Therefore, having been justified now by his blood, all the more so shall we be saved from wrath through him
    10: For if we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, while we were still enemies, all the more so, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life
    11: And not only that, but we also glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation
    12: Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into this world, and through sin, death; so also death was transferred to all men, to all who have sinned
    13: For even before the law, sin was in the world, but sin was not imputed while the law did not exist
    14: Yet death reigned from Adam until Moses, even in those who have not sinned, in the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a figure of him who was to come
    15: But the gift is not entirely like the offense. For though by the offense of one, many died, yet much more so, by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, has the grace and gift of God abounded to many
    16: And the sin through one is not entirely like the gift. For certainly, the judgment of one was unto condemnation, but the grace toward many offenses is unto justification
    17: For though, by the one offense, death reigned through one, yet so much more so shall those who receive an abundance of grace, both of the gift and of justice, reign in life through the one Jesus Christ
    18: Therefore, just as through the offense of one, all men fell under condemnation, so also through the justice of one, all men fall under justification unto life
    19: For, just as through the disobedience of one man, many were established as sinners, so also through the obedience of one man, many shall be established as just
    20: Now the law entered in such a way that offenses would abound. But where offenses were abundant, grace was superabundant
    21: So then, just as sin has reigned unto death, so also may grace reign through justice unto eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord

  Chapter 6.

    1: So what shall we say? Should we remain in sin, so that grace may abound
    2: Let it not be so! For how can we who have died to sin still live in sin
    3: Do you not know that those of us who have been baptized in Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death
    4: For through baptism we have been buried with him into death, so that, in the manner that Christ rose from the dead, by the glory of the Father, so may we also walk in the newness of life
    5: For if we have been planted together, in the likeness of his death, so shall we also be, in the likeness of his resurrection
    6: For we know this: that our former selves have been crucified together with him, so that the body which is of sin may be destroyed, and moreover, so that we may no longer serve sin
    7: For he who has died has been justified from sin
    8: Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live together with Christ
    9: For we know that Christ, in rising up from the dead, can no longer die: death no longer has dominion over him
    10: For in as much as he died for sin, he died once. But in as much as he lives, he lives for God
    11: And so, you should consider yourselves to be certainly dead to sin, and to be living for God in Christ Jesus our Lord
    12: Therefore, let not sin reign in your mortal body, such that you would obey its desires
    13: Nor should you offer the parts of your body as instruments of iniquity for sin. Instead, offer yourselves to God, as if you were living after death, and offer the parts of your body as instruments of justice for God
    14: For sin should not have dominion over you. For you are not under the law, but under grace
    15: What is next? Should we sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? Let it not be so
    16: Do you not know to whom you are offering yourselves as servants under obedience? You are the servants of whomever you obey: whether of sin, unto death, or of obedience, unto justice
    17: But thanks be to God that, though you used to be the servants of sin, now you have been obedient from the heart to the very form of the doctrine into which you have been received
    18: And having been freed from sin, we have become servants of justice
    19: I am speaking in human terms because of the infirmity of your flesh. For just as you offered the parts of your body to serve impurity and iniquity, for the sake of iniquity, so also have you now yielded the parts of your body to serve justice, for the sake of sanctification
    20: For though you were once the servants of sin, you have become the children of justice
    21: But what fruit did you hold at that time, in those things about which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death
    22: Yet truly, having been freed now from sin, and having been made servants of God, you hold your fruit in sanctification, and truly its end is eternal life
    23: For the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord

  Chapter 7.

    1: Or do you not know, brothers, (now I am speaking to those who know the law) that the law has dominion over a man only so long as he lives
    2: For example, a woman who is subject to a husband is obligated by the law while her husband lives. But when her husband has died, she is released from the law of her husband
    3: Therefore, while her husband lives, if she has been with another man, she should be called an adulteress. But when her husband has died, she is freed from the law of her husband, such that, if she has been with another man, she is not an adulteress
    4: And so, my brothers, you also have become dead to the law, through the body of Christ, so that you may be another one who has risen from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God
    5: For when we were in the flesh, the passions of sins, which were under the law, operated within our bodies, so as to bear fruit unto death
    6: But now we have been released from the law of death, by which we were being held, so that now we may serve with a renewed spirit, and not in the old way, by the letter
    7: What should we say next? Is the law sin? Let it not be so! But I do not know sin, except through the law. For example, I would not have known about coveting, unless the law said: “You shall not covet.
    8: But sin, receiving an opportunity through the commandment, wrought in me all manner of coveting. For apart from the law, sin was dead
    9: Now I lived for some time apart from the law. But when the commandment had arrived, sin was revived
    10: and I died. And the commandment, which was unto life, was itself found to be unto death for me
    11: For sin, receiving an opportunity through the commandment, seduced me, and, through the law, sin killed me
    12: And so, the law itself is indeed holy, and the commandment is holy and just and good
    13: Then was what is good made into death for me? Let it not be so! But rather sin, in order that it might be known as sin by what is good, wrought death in me; so that sin, through the commandment, might become sinful beyond measure
    14: For we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal, having been sold under sin
    15: For I do things that I do not understand. For I do not do the good that I want to do. But the evil that I hate is what I do
    16: So, when I do what I do not want to do, I am in agreement with the law, that the law is good
    17: But I am then acting not according to the law, but according to the sin which lives within me
    18: For I know that what is good does not live within me, that is, within my flesh. For the willingness to do good lies close to me, but the carrying out of that good, I cannot reach
    19: For I do not do the good that I want to do. But instead, I do the evil that I do not want to do
    20: Now if I do what I am not willing to do, it is no longer I who am doing it, but the sin which lives within me
    21: And so, I discover the law, by wanting to do good within myself, though evil lies close beside me
    22: For I am delighted with the law of God, according to the inner man
    23: But I perceive another law within my body, fighting against the law of my mind, and captivating me with the law of sin which is in my body
    24: Unhappy man that I am, who will free me from this body of death
    25: The grace of God, by Jesus Christ our Lord! Therefore, I serve the law of God with my own mind; but with the flesh, the law of sin

  Chapter 8.

    1: Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who are not walking according to the flesh
    2: For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has freed me from the law of sin and death
    3: For though this was impossible under the law, because it was weakened by the flesh, God sent his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and because of sin, in order to condemn sin in the flesh
    4: so that the justification of the law might be fulfilled in us. For we are not walking according to the flesh, but according to the spirit
    5: For those who are in agreement with the flesh are mindful of the things of the flesh. But those who are in agreement with the spirit are mindful of the things of the spirit
    6: For the prudence of the flesh is death. But the prudence of the spirit is life and peace
    7: And the wisdom of the flesh is inimical to God. For it is not subject to the law of God, nor can it be
    8: So those who are in the flesh are not able to please God
    9: And you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if it is true that the Spirit of God lives within you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him
    10: But if Christ is within you, then the body is indeed dead, concerning sin, but the spirit truly lives, because of justification
    11: But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead lives within you, then he who raised up Jesus Christ from the dead shall also enliven your mortal bodies, by means of his Spirit living within you
    12: Therefore, brothers, we are not debtors to the flesh, so as to live according to the flesh
    13: For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if, by the Spirit, you mortify the deeds of the flesh, you shall live
    14: For all those who are led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God
    15: And you have not received, again, a spirit of servitude in fear, but you have received the Spirit of the adoption of sons, in whom we cry out: “Abba, Father!
    16: For the Spirit himself renders testimony to our spirit that we are the sons of God
    17: But if we are sons, then we are also heirs: certainly heirs of God, but also co-heirs with Christ, yet in such a way that, if we suffer with him, we shall also be glorified with him
    18: For I consider that the sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with that future glory which shall be revealed in us
    19: For the anticipation of the creature anticipates the revelation of the sons of God
    20: For the creature was made subject to emptiness, not willingly, but for the sake of the One who made it subject, unto hope
    21: For the creature itself shall also be delivered from the servitude of corruption, into the liberty of the glory of the sons of God
    22: For we know that every creature groans inwardly, as if giving birth, even until now
    23: and not only these, but also ourselves, since we hold the first-fruits of the Spirit. For we also groan within ourselves, anticipating our adoption as the sons of God, and the redemption of our body
    24: For we have been saved by hope. But a hope which is seen is not hope. For when a man sees something, why would he hope
    25: But since we hope for what we do not see, we wait with patience
    26: And similarly, the Spirit also helps our weakness. For we do not know how to pray as we ought, but the Spirit himself asks on our behalf with ineffable sighing
    27: And he who examines hearts knows what the Spirit seeks, because he asks on behalf of the saints in accordance with God
    28: And we know that, for those who love God, all things work together unto good, for those who, in accordance with his purpose, are called to be saints
    29: For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined, in conformity with the image of his Son, so that he might be the Firstborn among many brothers
    30: And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified
    31: So, what should we say about these things? If God is for us, who is against us
    32: He who did not spare even his own Son, but handed him over for the sake of us all, how could he not also, with him, have given us all things
    33: Who will make an accusation against the elect of God? God is the One who justifies
    34: who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus who has died, and who has indeed also risen again, is at the right hand of God, and even now he intercedes for us
    35: Then who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation? Or anguish? Or famine? Or nakedness? Or peril? Or persecution? Or the sword
    36: For it is as it has been written: “For your sake, we are being put to death all day long. We are being treated like sheep for the slaughter.
    37: But in all these things we overcome, because of him who has loved us
    38: For I am certain that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor Principalities, nor Powers, nor the present things, nor the future things, nor strength
    39: nor the heights, nor the depths, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord

End of day 315.