Day 357:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And I saw a beast ascending from the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon its horns were ten diadems, and upon its heads were names of blasphemy
    2: And the beast that I saw was similar to a leopard, and its feet were like the feet of a bear, and its mouth was like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave his own power and great authority to it
    3: And I saw that one of its heads seemed to be slain unto death, but his deadly wound was healed. And the entire world was in wonder following the beast
    4: And they worshiped the dragon, who gave authority to the beast. And they worshiped the beast, saying: “Who is like the beast? And who would be able to fight with it?
    5: And there was given to it a mouth, speaking great things and blasphemies. And authority was given to him to act for forty-two months
    6: And he opened his mouth in blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle and those who dwell in heaven
    7: And it was given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. And authority was given to him over every tribe and people and language and nation
    8: And all who inhabit the earth worshiped the beast, those whose names have not been written, from the origin of the world, in the Book of Life of the Lamb who was slain
    9: If anyone has an ear, let him hear
    10: Whoever will be led into captivity, into captivity he goes. Whoever will kill with the sword, with the sword he must be killed. Here is the patient endurance and faith of the Saints
    11: And I saw another beast ascending from the land. And she had two horns like the Lamb, but she was speaking like the dragon
    12: And she acted with all the authority of the first beast in his sight. And she caused the earth, and those dwelling in it, to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed
    13: And she accomplished great signs, even so that she would cause fire to descend from the sky to the earth in the sight of men
    14: And she seduced those living on the earth, by means of the signs that were given to her to perform in the sight of the beast, saying to those dwelling on the earth that they should make an image of the beast who had a wound of the sword and yet lived
    15: And it was given to her to give a spirit to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast would speak. And she acted so that whoever would not worship the image of the beast would be slain
    16: And she will cause everyone, small and great, wealthy and poor, free and servant, to have a character on their right hand or on their foreheads
    17: so that no one may buy or sell, unless he has the character, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name
    18: Here is wisdom. Whoever has intelligence, let him determine the number of the beast. For it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred and sixty-six

  Chapter 14.

    1: And I saw, and behold, the Lamb was standing above mount Zion, and with him were one hundred and forty-four thousand, having his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads
    2: And I heard a voice from heaven, like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of a great thunder. And the voice that I heard was like that of singers, while playing on their stringed instruments
    3: And they were singing what seemed like a new canticle before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. And no one was able to recite the canticle, except those one hundred and forty-four thousand, who were redeemed from the earth
    4: These are the ones who were not defiled with women, for they are Virgins. These follow the Lamb wherever he will go. These were redeemed from men as the first-fruits for God and for the Lamb
    5: And in their mouth, no lie was found, for they are without flaw before the throne of God
    6: And I saw another Angel, flying through the midst of heaven, holding the eternal Gospel, so as to evangelize those sitting upon the earth and those of  every nation and tribe and language and people
    7: saying with a loud voice: “Fear the Lord, and give honor to him, for the hour of his judgment has arrived. And worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the sources of water.
    8: And another Angel followed, saying: “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, who inebriated all nations with the wine of her wrath and of fornication.
    9: And the third Angel followed them, saying with a great voice: “If anyone has worshiped the beast, or his image, or has received his character on his forehead or on his hand
    10: he shall drink also from the wine of the wrath of God, which has been mixed with strong wine in the cup of his wrath, and he shall be tortured with fire and sulphur in the sight of the holy Angels and before the sight of the Lamb
    11: And the smoke of their torments shall ascend forever and ever. And they shall have no rest, day or night, those who have worshiped the beast or his image, or who have received the character of his name.
    12: Here is the patient endurance of the Saints, those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus
    13: And I heard a voice from heaven, saying to me: “Write: Blessed are the dead, who die in the Lord, now and hereafter, says the Spirit, so that they may find rest from their labors. For their works follow them.
    14: And I saw, and behold, a white cloud. And upon the cloud was one sitting, resembling a son of man, having a crown of gold on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand
    15: And another Angel went forth from the temple, crying out in a great voice to the one sitting upon the cloud: “Send out your sickle and reap! For the hour of reaping has arrived, because the harvest of the earth has ripened.
    16: And the one who was sitting upon the cloud sent out his sickle to the earth, and the earth was reaped
    17: And another Angel went forth from the temple that is in heaven; he also had a sharp sickle
    18: And another Angel went forth from the altar, who held power over fire. And he cried out in a great voice to him who held the sharp sickle, saying: “Send out your sharp sickle, and harvest the clusters of grapes from the vineyard of the earth, because its grapes have matured.
    19: And the Angel sent out his sharp sickle to the earth, and he harvested the vineyard of the earth, and he cast it into the great basin of the wrath of God
    20: And the basin was trodden beyond the city, and blood went forth from the basin, even as high as the harnesses of horses, out to one thousand six hundred stadia

  Chapter 15.

    1: And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wondrous: seven Angels, holding the seven last afflictions. For with them, the wrath of God is completed
    2: And I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire. And those who had overcome the beast and his image and the number of his name, were standing upon the sea of glass, holding the harps of God
    3: and singing the canticle of Moses, the servant of God, and the canticle of the Lamb, saying: “Great and wondrous are your works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are your ways, King of all ages
    4: Who shall not fear you, O Lord, and magnify your name? For you alone are blessed. For all nations shall approach and adore in your sight, because your judgments are manifest.
    5: And after these things, I saw, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened
    6: And the seven Angels went forth from the temple, holding the seven afflictions, clothed with clean white linen, and girded around the chest with wide golden belts
    7: And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven Angels seven golden bowls, filled with the wrath of God, of the One who lives forever and ever
    8: And the temple was filled with smoke from the majesty of God and from his power. And no one was able to enter into the temple, until the seven afflictions of the seven Angels were completed

  Chapter 16.

    1: And I heard a great voice from the temple, saying to the seven Angels: “Go forth and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God upon the earth.
    2: And the first Angel went forth and poured out his bowl upon the earth. And a severe and most grievous  wound occurred upon the men who had the character of the beast, and upon those who adored the beast or its image
    3: And the second Angel poured out his bowl upon the sea. And it became like the blood of the dead, and every living creature in the sea died
    4: And the third Angel poured out his bowl upon the rivers and the sources of water, and these became blood
    5: And I heard the Angel of the waters saying: “You are just, O Lord, who is and who was: the Holy One who has judged these things
    6: For they have shed the blood of the Saints and the Prophets, and so you have given them blood to drink. For they deserve this.
    7: And from the altar, I heard another one, saying, “Even now, O Lord God Almighty, your judgments are true and just.
    8: And the fourth Angel poured out his bowl upon the sun. And it was given to him to afflict men with heat and fire
    9: And men were scorched by the great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who holds power over these afflictions, but they did not repent, so as to give him glory
    10: And the fifth Angel poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast. And his kingdom became darkened, and they gnawed at their tongues out of anguish
    11: And they blasphemed the God of heaven, because of their anguish and wounds, but they did not repent from their works
    12: And the sixth Angel poured out his bowl upon that great river Euphrates. And its water dried up, so that a way might be prepared for the kings from the rising of the sun
    13: And I saw, from the mouth of the dragon, and from the mouth of the beast, and from the mouth of the false prophetess, three unclean spirits go out in the manner of frogs
    14: For these are the spirits of the demons that were causing the signs. And they advanced to the kings of the entire earth, to gather them for battle on the great day of Almighty God
    15: “Behold, I arrive like a thief. Blessed is he who is vigilant and who preserves his vestment, lest he walk naked and they see his disgrace.
    16: And he shall gather them together at a place which is called, in Hebrew, Armageddon
    17: And the seventh Angel poured out his bowl upon the air. And a great voice went out of the temple from the throne, saying: “It is done.
    18: And there were lightnings and voices and thunders. And a great earthquake occurred, of a kind such as has never happened since men have been upon the earth, so great was this kind of earthquake
    19: And the Great City became divided into three parts. And the cities of the Gentiles fell. And Babylon the great came to mind before God, to give her the cup of the wine of the indignation of his wrath
    20: And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found
    21: And hail as heavy as a talent descended from the sky upon men. And men blasphemed God, because of the affliction of the hail, for it was exceedingly great

End of day 357.