Day 296:

Reading Luke, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Now it happened that, when the crowds pressed toward him, so that they might hear the word of God, he was standing beside the lake of Genesaret
    2: And he saw two boats standing beside the lake. But the fishermen had climbed down, and they were washing their nets
    3: And so, climbing into one of the boats, which belonged to Simon, he asked him to draw back a little from the land. And sitting down, he taught the crowds from the boat
    4: Then, when he had ceased speaking, he said to Simon, “Lead us into deep water, and release your nets for a catch.
    5: And in response, Simon said to him: “Teacher,  working throughout the night, we caught nothing. But on your word, I will release the net.
    6: And when they had done this, they enclosed such a copious multitude of fish that their net was rupturing
    7: And they signaled to their associates, who were in the other boat, so that they would come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, so that they were nearly submerged
    8: But when Simon Peter had seen this, he fell down at the knees of Jesus, saying, “Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man.
    9: For astonishment had enveloped him, and all who were with him, at the catch of fish that they had taken
    10: Now the same was true of James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were associates of Simon. And Jesus said to Simon: “Do not be afraid. From now on, you will be catching men.
    11: And having led their boats to land, leaving behind everything, they followed him
    12: And it happened that, while he was in a certain city, behold, there was a man full of leprosy who, upon seeing Jesus and falling to his face, petitioned him, saying: “Lord, if you are willing, you are able to cleanse me.
    13: And extending his hand, he touched him, saying: “I am willing. Be cleansed.” And at once, the leprosy departed from him
    14: And he instructed him that he should tell no one, “But go, show yourself to the priest, and make the offering for your cleansing, just as Moses has commanded, as a testimony for them.
    15: Yet word of him traveled around all the more. And great crowds came together, so that they might listen and be cured by him from their infirmities
    16: And he withdrew into the desert and prayed
    17: And it happened, on a certain day, that he again sat down, teaching. And there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting nearby, who had come from every town of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present, to heal them
    18: And behold, some men were carrying in the bed of a man who was paralyzed. And they sought a way to bring him in, and to place him before him
    19: And not finding a way by which they might bring him in, because of the crowd, they climbed up to the roof, and they let him down through the roof tiles with his bed, into their midst, in front of Jesus
    20: And when he saw his faith, he said, “Man, your sins are forgiven you.
    21: And the scribes and Pharisees began to think, saying: “Who is this, who is speaking blasphemies? Who is able to forgive sins, except God alone?
    22: But when Jesus realized their thoughts, responding, he said to them: “What are you thinking in your hearts
    23: Which is easier to say: ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise up and walk?
    24: But so that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins,” he said to the paralytic, “I say to you to: Rise up, take up your bed, and go into your house.
    25: And at once, rising up in their sight, he took up the bed on which he was lying, and he went away to his own house, magnifying God
    26: And astonishment took hold of everyone, and they were magnifying God. And they were filled with fear, saying: “For we have seen miracles today.
    27: And after these things, he went out, and he saw a tax collector named Levi, sitting at the customs office. And he said to him, “Follow me.
    28: And leaving behind everything, rising up, he followed him
    29: And Levi made a great feast for him in his own house. And there was a large crowd of tax collectors and others, who were sitting at table with them
    30: But the Pharisees and scribes were murmuring, saying to his disciples, “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
    31: And responding, Jesus said to them: “It is not those who are well who need a doctor, but those who have maladies
    32: I have not come to call the just, but sinners to repentance.
    33: But they said to him, “Why do the disciples of John fast frequently, and make supplications, and those of the Pharisees act similarly, while yours eat and drink?
    34: And he said to them: “How can you cause the sons of the groom to fast, while the groom is still with them
    35: But the days will come when the groom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast, in those days.
    36: Then he also made a comparison for them: “For no one sews a patch from a new garment onto an old garment. Otherwise, he both disrupts the new one, and the patch from the new one does not join together with the old one
    37: And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the new wine ruptures the wineskins, and it will be poured out, and the wineskins will be lost
    38: Instead, the new wine is put into new wineskins, and both are preserved
    39: And no one who is drinking the old, soon wishes for the new. For he says, ‘The old is better.’ 

  Chapter 6.

    1: Now it happened that, on the second first Sabbath, as he passed through the grain field, his disciples were separating the ears of grain and eating them, by rubbing them in their hands
    2: Then certain Pharisees said to them, “Why are you doing what is not lawful on the Sabbaths?
    3: And responding to them, Jesus said: “Have you not read this, what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him
    4: How he entered into the house of God, and took the bread of the Presence, and ate it, and gave it to those who were with him, though it is not lawful for anyone to eat it, except the priests alone?
    5: And he said to them, “For the Son of man is Lord, even of the Sabbath.
    6: And it happened that, on another Sabbath, he entered into the synagogue, and he taught. And there was a man there, and his right hand was withered
    7: And the scribes and Pharisees observed whether he would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might thereby find an accusation against him
    8: Yet truly, he knew their thoughts, and so he said to the man who had the withered hand, “Rise up and stand in the middle.” And rising up, he stood still
    9: Then Jesus said to them: “I ask you if it is lawful on the Sabbaths to do good, or to do evil? To give health to a life, or to destroy it?
    10: And looking around at everyone, he said to the man, “Extend your hand.” And he extended it. And his hand was restored
    11: Then they were filled with madness, and they discussed with one another, what, in particular, they might do about Jesus
    12: And it happened that, in those days, he went out to a mountain to pray. And he was in the prayer of God throughout the night
    13: And when daylight had arrived, he called his disciples. And he chose twelve out of them (whom he also named Apostles)
    14: Simon, whom he surnamed Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew
    15: Matthew and Thomas, James of Alphaeus, and Simon who is called the Zealot
    16: and Jude of James, and Judas Iscariot, who was a traitor
    17: And descending with them, he stood in a level place with a multitude of his disciples, and a copious multitude of people from all of Judea and Jerusalem and the seacoast, and Tyre and Sidon
    18: who had come so that they might listen to him and be healed of their diseases. And those who were troubled by unclean spirits were cured
    19: And the entire crowd was trying to touch him, because power went out from him and healed all
    20: And lifting up his eyes to his disciples, he said: “Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God
    21: Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you shall be satisfied. Blessed are you who are weeping now, for you shall laugh
    22: Blessed shall you be when men will have hated you, and when they will have separated you and reproached you, and thrown out your name as if evil, because of the Son of man
    23: Be glad in that day and exult. For behold, your reward is great in heaven. For these same things their fathers did to the prophets
    24: Yet truly, woe to you who are wealthy, for you have your consolation
    25: Woe to you who are satisfied, for you will be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep
    26: Woe to you when men will have blessed you. For these same things their fathers did to the false prophets
    27: But I say to you who are listening: Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you
    28: Bless those who curse you, and pray for those who slander you
    29: And to him who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also. And from him who takes away your coat, do not withhold even your tunic
    30: But distribute to all who ask of you. And do not ask again of him who takes away what is yours
    31: And exactly as you would want people to treat you, treat them also the same
    32: And if you love those who love you, what credit is due to you? For even sinners love those who love them
    33: And if you will do good to those who do good to you, what credit is due to you? Indeed, even sinners behave this way
    34: And if you will loan to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is due to you? For even sinners lend to sinners, in order to receive the same in return
    35: So truly, love your enemies. Do good, and lend, hoping for nothing in return. And then your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he himself is kind to the ungrateful and to the wicked
    36: Therefore, be merciful, just as your Father is also merciful
    37: Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven
    38: Give, and it will be given to you: a good measure, pressed down and shaken together and overflowing, they will place upon your lap. Certainly, the same measure that you use to measure out, will be used to measure back to you again.
    39: Now he told them another comparison: “How can the blind lead the blind? Would they not both fall into a pit
    40: The disciple is not above his teacher. But each one will be perfected, if he is like his teacher
    41: And why do you see the straw that is in your brother’s eye, while the log that is in your own eye, you do not consider
    42: Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, allow me to remove the straw from your eye,’ while you yourself do not see the log in your own eye? Hypocrite, first remove the log from your own eye, and then will you see clearly, so that you may lead out the straw from your brother’s eye
    43: For there is no good tree which produces bad fruit, nor does an evil tree produce good fruit
    44: For each and every tree is known by its fruit. For they do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather the grape from the bramble bush
    45: A good man, from the good storehouse of his heart, offers what is good. And an evil man, from the evil storehouse, offers what is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks
    46: But why do you call me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and not do what I say
    47: Anyone who comes to me, and listens to my words, and does them: I will reveal to you what he is like
    48: He is like a man building a house, who has dug deep and has laid the foundation upon the rock. Then, when the floodwaters came, the river was rushing against that house, and it was not able to move it. For it was founded upon the rock
    49: But whoever hears and does not do: he is like a man building his house upon the soil, without a foundation. The river rushed against it, and it soon fell down, and the ruin of that house was great.

  Chapter 7.

    1: And when he had completed all his words in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum
    2: Now the servant of a certain centurion was dying, due to an illness. And he was very dear to him
    3: And when he had heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to him, petitioning him, so that he would come and heal his servant
    4: And when they had come to Jesus, they petitioned him anxiously, saying to him: “He is worthy that you should provide this to him
    5: For he loves our nation, and he has built a synagogue for us.
    6: Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying: “Lord, do not trouble yourself. For I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof
    7: Because of this, I also did not consider myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my servant shall be healed
    8: For I also am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.
    9: And upon hearing this, Jesus was amazed. And turning to the multitude following him, he said, “Amen I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith.
    10: And those who had been sent, upon returning to the house, found that the servant, who had been sick, was now healthy
    11: And it happened afterwards that he went to a city, which is called Nain. And his disciples, and an abundant crowd, went with him
    12: Then, when he had drawn near to the gate of the city, behold, a deceased person was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the city was with her
    13: And when the Lord had seen her, being moved by mercy over her, he said to her, “Do not weep.
    14: And he drew near and touched the coffin. Then those who carried it stood still. And he said, “Young man, I say to you, arise.
    15: And the dead youth sat up and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother
    16: Then fear fell over all of them. And they magnified God, saying: “For a great prophet has risen up among us,” and, “For God has visited his people.
    17: And this word about him went out to all of Judea and to the entire surrounding region
    18: And the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things
    19: And John called two of his disciples, and he sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are you he who is to come, or should we wait for another?
    20: But when the men had come to him, they said: “John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying: ‘Are you he who is to come, or should we wait for another?’ 
    21: Now in that same hour, he cured many of their diseases and wounds and evil spirits; and to many of the blind, he gave sight
    22: And responding, he said to them: “Go and report to John what you have heard and seen: that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, the poor are evangelized
    23: And blessed is anyone who has not taken offense at me.
    24: And when the messengers of John had withdrawn, he began to speak about John to the crowds. “What did you go out to the desert to see? A reed shaken by the wind
    25: Then what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Behold, those who are in costly apparel and finery are in the houses of kings
    26: Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Certainly, I tell you, and more than a prophet
    27: This is he of whom it is written: “Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you.
    28: For I say to you, among those born of women, no one is greater than the prophet John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
    29: And upon hearing this, all the people and the tax collectors justified God, by being baptized with the baptism of John
    30: But the Pharisees and the experts in the law despised the counsel of God concerning themselves, by not being baptized by him
    31: Then the Lord said: “Therefore, to what shall I compare the men of this generation? And to what are they similar
    32: They are like children sitting in the marketplace, talking with one another, and saying: ‘We sang to you, and you did not dance. We lamented, and you did not weep.
    33: For John the Baptist came, neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.
    34: The Son of man came, eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Behold, a voracious man and a drinker of wine, a friend of tax collectors and of sinners.
    35: But wisdom is justified by all her children.
    36: Then certain Pharisees petitioned him, so that they might eat with him. And he went into the house of the Pharisee, and he reclined at table
    37: And behold, a woman who was in the city, a sinner, found out that he was reclining at table in the house of the Pharisee, so she brought an alabaster container of ointment
    38: And standing behind him, beside his feet, she began to wash his feet with tears, and she wiped them with the hair of her head, and she kissed his feet, and she anointed them with ointment
    39: Then the Pharisee, who had invited him, upon seeing this, spoke within himself, saying, “This man, if he were a prophet, would certainly know who and what kind of woman is this, who is touching him: that she is a sinner.
    40: And in response, Jesus said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” So he said, “Speak, Teacher.
    41: “A certain creditor had two debtors: one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty
    42: And since they did not have the ability to repay him, he forgave them both. So then, which of them loves him more?
    43: In response, Simon said, “I suppose that it is he to whom he forgave the most.” And he said to him, “You have judged correctly.
    44: And turning to the woman, he said to Simon: “Do you see this woman? I entered into your house. You gave me no water for my feet. But she has washed my feet with tears, and has wiped them with her hair
    45: You gave no kiss to me. But she, from the time that she entered, has not ceased to kiss my feet
    46: You did not anoint my head with oil. But she has anointed my feet with ointment
    47: Because of this, I tell you: many sins are forgiven her, because she has loved much. But he who is forgiven less, loves less.
    48: Then he said to her, “Your sins are forgiven you.
    49: And those who sat at table with him began to say within themselves, “Who is this, who even forgives sins?
    50: Then he said to the woman: “Your faith has brought you salvation. Go in peace.

  Chapter 8.

    1: And it happened afterwards that he was making a journey through the cities and towns, preaching and evangelizing the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him
    2: along with certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, who is called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had departed
    3: and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many other women, who were ministering to him from their resources
    4: Then, when a very numerous crowd was gathering together and hurrying from the cities to him, he spoke using a comparison
    5: “The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell beside the way; and it was trampled and the birds of the air devoured it
    6: And some fell upon rock; and having sprung up, it withered away, because it had no moisture
    7: And some fell among thorns; and the thorns, rising up with it, suffocated it
    8: And some fell upon good soil; and having sprung up, it produced fruit one hundredfold.” As he said these things, he cried out, “Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.
    9: Then his disciples questioned him as to what this parable might mean
    10: And he said to them: “To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. But to the rest, it is in parables, so that: seeing, they may not perceive, and hearing, they may not understand
    11: Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God
    12: And those beside the way are those who hear it, but then the devil comes and takes the word from their heart, lest by believing it they may be saved
    13: Now those upon rock are those who, when they hear it, accept the word with joy, but these have no roots. So they believe for a time, but in a time of testing, they fall away
    14: And those which fell among thorns are those who have heard it, but as they go along, they are suffocated by the concerns and riches and pleasures of this life, and so they do not yield fruit
    15: But those which were on good soil are those who, upon hearing the word with a good and noble heart, retain it, and they bring forth fruit in patience
    16: Now no one, lighting a candle, covers it with a container, or sets it under a bed. Instead, he places it on a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light
    17: For there is nothing secret, which will not be made clear, nor is there anything hidden, which will not be known and be brought into plain sight
    18: Therefore, take care how you listen. For whoever has, it will be given to him; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has will be taken away from him.
    19: Then his mother and brothers came to him; but they were not able to go to him because of the crowd
    20: And it was reported to him, “Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, wanting to see you.
    21: And in response, he said to them, “My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it.
    22: Now it happened, on a certain day, that he climbed into a little boat with his disciples. And he said to them, “Let us make a crossing over the lake.” And they embarked
    23: And as they were sailing, he slept. And a windstorm descended over the lake. And they were taking on water and were in danger
    24: Then, drawing near, they awakened him, saying, “Teacher, we are perishing.” But as he rose up, he rebuked the wind and the raging water, and they ceased. And a tranquility occurred
    25: Then he said to them, “Where is your faith?” And they, being afraid, were amazed, saying to one another, “Who do you think this is, so that he commands both wind and sea, and they obey him?
    26: And they sailed to the region of the Gerasenes, which is opposite Galilee
    27: And when he had gone out to the land, a certain man met him, who had now had a demon for a long time. And he did not wear clothes, nor did he stay in a house, but among the sepulchers
    28: And when he saw Jesus, he fell down before him. And crying out in a loud voice, he said: “What is there between me and you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you not to torture me.
    29: For he was ordering the unclean spirit to depart from the man. For on many occasions, it would seize him, and he was bound with chains and held by fetters. But breaking the chains, he was driven by the demon into deserted places
    30: Then Jesus questioned him, saying, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” because many demons had entered into him
    31: And they petitioned him not to order them to go into the abyss
    32: And in that place, there was a herd of many swine, pasturing on the mountain. And they petitioned him to permit them to enter into them. And he permitted them
    33: Therefore, the demons departed from the man, and they entered into the swine. And the herd rushed violently down a precipice into the lake, and they were drowned
    34: And when those who were pasturing them had seen this, they fled and reported it in the city and the villages
    35: Then they went out to see what was happening, and they came to Jesus. And they found the man, from whom the demons had departed, sitting at his feet, clothed as well as in a sane mind, and they were afraid
    36: Then those who had seen this also reported to them how he had been healed from the legion
    37: And the entire multitude from the region of the Gerasenes pleaded with him to depart from them. For they were seized by a great fear. Then, climbing into the boat, he went back again
    38: And the man from whom the demons had departed pleaded with him, so that he might be with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying
    39: “Return to your house and explain to them what great things God has done for you.” And he traveled through the entire city, preaching about the great things that Jesus had done for him
    40: Now it happened that, when Jesus had returned, the crowd received him. For they were all waiting for him
    41: And behold, a man came, whose name was Jairus, and he was a leader of the synagogue. And he fell down at the feet of Jesus, asking him to enter into his house
    42: For he had an only daughter, nearly twelve years old, and she was dying. And it happened that, as he was going there, he was hemmed in by the crowd
    43: And there was a certain woman, with a flow of blood for twelve years, who had paid out all her substance on physicians, and she was unable to be cured by any of them
    44: She approached him from behind, and she touched the hem of his garment. And at once the flow of her blood stopped
    45: And Jesus said, “Who is it that touched me?” But as everyone was denying it, Peter, and those who were with him, said: “Teacher, the crowd hems you in and presses upon you, and yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’ 
    46: And Jesus said: “Someone has touched me. For I know that power has gone out from me.
    47: Then the woman, upon seeing that she was not hidden, came forward, trembling, and she fell down before his feet. And she declared before all the people the reason that she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed
    48: But he said to her: “Daughter, your faith has saved you. Go in peace.
    49: While he was still speaking, someone came to the ruler of the synagogue, saying to him: “Your daughter is dead. Do not trouble him.
    50: Then Jesus, upon hearing this word, replied to the father of the girl: “Do not be afraid. Only believe, and she will be saved.
    51: And when he had arrived at the house, he would not permit anyone to enter with him, except Peter and James and John, and the father and mother of the girl
    52: Now all were weeping and mourning for her. But he said: “Do not weep. The girl is not dead, but only sleeping.
    53: And they derided him, knowing that she had died
    54: But he, taking her by the hand, cried out, saying, “Little girl, arise.
    55: And her spirit returned, and she immediately rose up. And he ordered them to give her something to eat
    56: And her parents were stupefied. And he instructed them not to tell anyone what had happened

End of day 296.