Day 248:

Reading Ezekiel, chapters ['37', '38', '39', '40']:

  Chapter 37.

    1: The hand of the Lord was set upon me, and he led me away in the Spirit of the Lord, and he released me in the midst of a plain which was full of bones
    2: And he led me around, through them, on every side. Now they were very many upon the face of the plain, and they were exceedingly dry
    3: And he said to me, “Son of man, do you think that these bones will live?” And I said, “O Lord God, you know.
    4: And he said to me, “Prophesy about these bones. And you shall say to them: Dry bones, listen to the word of the Lord
    5: Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will send spirit into you, and you shall live
    6: And I will set sinews upon you, and I will cause flesh to grow over you, and I will extend skin over you. And I will give you spirit, and you shall live. And you shall know that I am the Lord.
    7: And I prophesied, just as he had instructed me. But a noise occurred, as I was prophesying, and behold: a commotion. And the bones joined together, each one at its joint
    8: And I saw, and behold: sinews and flesh rose up over them; and skin was extended over them. But they had no spirit within them
    9: And he said to me: “Prophesy to the spirit! Prophesy, O son of man, and you shall say to the spirit: Thus says the Lord God: Approach, O spirit, from the four winds, and blow across these ones who were slain, and revive them.
    10: And I prophesied, just as he had instructed me. And spirit entered into them, and they lived. And they stood upon their feet, an exceedingly great army
    11: And he said to me: “Son of man: All these bones are the house of Israel. They say: ‘Our bones are dried out, and our hope has perished, and we have been cut off.
    12: Because of this, prophesy, and you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will open your tombs, and I will lead you away from your sepulchers, O my people. And I will lead you into the land of Israel
    13: And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have opened your sepulchers, and when I will have led you away from your tombs, O my people
    14: And I will place my Spirit within you, and you shall live. And I will cause you to rest upon your own soil. And you shall know that I, the Lord, have spoken and acted, says the Lord God.
    15: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    16: “And as for you, son of man, take up a piece of wood for yourself, and write upon it: ‘For Judah, and for the sons of Israel, his companions.’ And take up another piece of wood, and write upon it: ‘For Joseph, the wood of Ephraim, and for the entire house of Israel, and for his companions.
    17: And join these, one to the other, for yourself, as one piece of wood. And they will be united in your hand
    18: Then, when the sons of your people will speak to you, saying: ‘Will you not tell us what you intend by this?
    19: you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will take up the wood of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel, which are joined to him, and I will put them together with the wood of Judah, and I will make them one piece of wood. And they will be one in his hand
    20: Then the pieces of wood, on which you have written, will be in your hand, before their eyes
    21: And you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will take up the sons of Israel, from the midst of the nations to which they have gone, and I will gather them together on every side, and I will lead them onto their own soil
    22: And I will make them one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel, and one king will be ruler over all. And they will no longer be two nations, nor will they be divided any more into two kingdoms
    23: And they will no longer be defiled by their idols, and by their abominations, and by all their iniquities. And I will save them, out of all the settlements in which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them. And they will be my people, and I will be their God
    24: And my servant David shall be the king over them, and they shall have one shepherd. They shall walk in my judgments, and they shall keep my commandments, and they shall do them
    25: And they shall live upon the land that I gave to my servant Jacob, in which your fathers lived. And they shall live upon it, they and their sons, and the sons of their sons, even for all time. And David, my servant, shall be their leader, in perpetuity
    26: And I will strike a covenant of peace with them. This will be an everlasting covenant for them. And I will establish them, and multiply them. And I will set my sanctuary in their midst, unceasingly
    27: And my tabernacle shall be among them. And I will be their God, and they will be my people
    28: And the Gentiles shall know that I am the Lord, the Sanctifier of Israel, when my sanctuary will be in their midst, forever.

  Chapter 38.

    1: And the word of the Lord came to me, saying
    2: “Son of man, set your face against Gog, the land of Magog, the prince of the head of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy about him
    3: And you shall say to him: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, prince of the head of Meshech and Tubal
    4: And I will turn you around, and I will place a bit in your jaws. And I will lead you away, with all your army, the horses and the horsemen all clothed in armor, a great multitude, equipped with spears and light shields and swords
    5: the Persians, the Ethiopians, and the Libyans with them, all with heavy shields and helmets
    6: Gomer, and all his companies, the house of Togarmah, the northern parts, and all his strength, and the many peoples with you
    7: Prepare and equip yourself, with all your multitude which has been assembled to you. And you shall be like a commandment to them
    8: After many days, you will be visited. At the end of the years, you will arrive at the land which was turned back by the sword, and which has been gathered from many peoples to the mountains of Israel that have been continually abandoned. These ones have been led away from the peoples, and all of them will be living confidently within it
    9: But you will ascend and arrive like a tempest and like a cloud, so that you may cover the land, you and all your companies, and the many peoples with you
    10: Thus says the Lord God: In that day, words will climb into your heart, and you will invent a most wicked plan
    11: And you will say: ‘I will ascend to the land without a wall. I will go to those who are resting and dwelling securely. All these live without a wall; they have no bars or gates.
    12: Thus, you will plunder spoils, and you will take possession of prey, so that you may lay your hand upon those who had been abandoned, and afterwards were restored, and upon a people who were gathered away from the Gentiles, a people who have begun to possess, and to be the inhabitants of, the navel of the earth
    13: Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, and all its lions will say to you: ‘Could you have arrived in order to purchase from the spoils? Behold, you have gathered your multitude in order to plunder a prey, so that you may take silver and gold, and carry away equipment and substance, and plunder immeasurable wealth.
    14: Because of this, son of man, prophesy, and you shall say to Gog: Thus says the Lord God: How is it that you do not know of that day, when my people, Israel, will be living in confidence
    15: And you will advance from your place, from the parts of the north, you and the many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great assembly and an immense army
    16: And you will rise up over my people, Israel, like a cloud, so that you may cover the earth. In the latter days, you will be. And I will lead you over my own land, so that the Gentiles may know me, when I will have been sanctified in you, O Gog, before their eyes
    17: Thus says the Lord God: Therefore, you are the one, about whom I spoke in the days of antiquity, by the hand of my servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in the days of those times that I would lead you over them
    18: And this shall be in that day, in the day of the advent of Gog over the land of Israel, says the Lord God: my indignation will rise up in my fury
    19: And I have spoken, in my zeal and in the fire of my wrath, that there shall be a great commotion over the land of Israel, in that day
    20: And before my face there shall be stirred up: the fish of the sea, and the flying things of the air, and the beasts of the field, and every crawling thing that moves across the soil, and all the men who are upon the face of the earth. And the mountains will be overturned, and the hedges will fall, and every wall will fall in ruin to the ground
    21: And I will call for the sword against him on all my mountains, says the Lord God. Each one’s sword will be directed toward his brother
    22: And I will judge him by pestilence, and blood, and violent rainstorms, and immense hailstones. I will rain fire and brimstone upon him, and upon his army, and upon the many peoples who are with him
    23: And I will be magnified and sanctified. And I will be known in the eyes of the many nations. And they shall know that I am the Lord.

  Chapter 39.

    1: “But as for you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and you shall say: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am above you, O Gog, prince of the head of Meshech and Tubal
    2: And I will turn you around, and I will lead you away, and I will cause you to rise up from the parts of the north. And I will bring you over the mountains of Israel
    3: And I will strike your bow in your left hand, and I will cast away your arrows from your right hand
    4: You will fall upon the mountains of Israel, you and all your companies, and your peoples who are with you. I have given you over to the wild animals, to the birds, and to every flying thing, and to the beasts of the earth, in order to be devoured
    5: You will fall upon the face of the field. For I have spoken, says the Lord God
    6: And I will send a fire upon Magog, and upon those who are living confidently in the islands. And they shall know that I am the Lord
    7: And I will make known my holy name in the midst of my people, Israel, and my holy name will no longer be defiled. And the Gentiles shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One of Israel
    8: Behold, it approaches, and it is done, says the Lord God. This is the day, about which I have spoken
    9: And the inhabitants from the cities of Israel will go forth, and they will kindle and burn the weapons, the shields and the spears, the bows and the arrows, and the staff and the lance. And they will kindle fires with them for seven years
    10: And they will not carry wood from the countryside, and they will not cut from the forests. For they will kindle the weapons with fire. And they will prey upon those who had preyed upon them, and they will plunder those who had plundered them, says the Lord God
    11: And this shall be in that day: I will give Gog a renown place as a sepulcher in Israel, the valley of the wayfarers to the east of the sea, which will cause astonishment in those who pass by. And in that place, they will bury Gog and all his multitude, and it will be called the valley of the multitude of Gog
    12: And the house of Israel will bury them, so that they may cleanse the land, for seven months
    13: Then all the people of the earth will bury them, and this shall be for them a renown day, on which I have been glorified, says the Lord God
    14: And they shall appoint men to continually examine the earth, so that they may seek out and bury those who have remained on the surface of the earth, so that they may cleanse it. Then, after seven months, they will begin to seek
    15: And they will go around, traveling the earth. And when they will have seen the bone of a man, they will station a marker beside it, until the undertakers may bury it in the valley of the multitude of Gog
    16: And the name of the city will be: the Multitude. And they shall cleanse the earth
    17: As for you, then, son of man, thus says the Lord God: Say to every flying thing, and to all the birds, and to all the beasts of the field: Assemble! Hurry! Rush together from every side to my victim, which I have immolated for you, a great victim upon the mountains of Israel, so that you may consume flesh, and drink blood
    18: You shall eat the flesh of the powerful, and you shall drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams and lambs and he-goats and bulls, and of fattened birds and all that is fat
    19: And you shall consume the fat unto satiation, and you shall drink the blood unto inebriation, from the victim that I will immolate for you
    20: And you shall be satiated, upon my table, from horses and powerful horsemen, and from all the men of war, says the Lord God
    21: And I will set my glory among the Gentiles. And all the nations shall see my judgment, which I have accomplished, and my hand, which I have laid upon them
    22: And the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord, their God, from that day and thereafter
    23: And the Gentiles shall know that the house of Israel was taken captive because of their own iniquity, because they abandoned me. And so I concealed my face from them, and I delivered them into the hands of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword
    24: I have acted toward them in accord with their uncleanness and wickedness, and so I concealed my face from them
    25: Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Now I will lead back the captivity of Jacob, and I will take pity upon the entire house of Israel. And I will act with zeal on behalf of my holy name
    26: And they shall bear their shame and all their transgression, by which they betrayed me, though they were living in their own land confidently, dreading no one
    27: And I will lead them back from among the peoples, and I will gather them together from the lands of their enemies, and I will be sanctified in them, in the sight of the many nations
    28: And they shall know that I am the Lord, their God, because I carried them away to the nations, and I gathered them upon their own land, and I did not abandon any of them there
    29: And I will no longer conceal my face from them, for I have poured out my Spirit upon the entire house of Israel, says the Lord God.

  Chapter 40.

    1: In the twenty-fifth year of our transmigration, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck, on this very day, the hand of the Lord was placed upon me, and he brought me to that place
    2: In the visions of God, he brought me into the land of Israel, and he released me on an exceedingly high mountain, on which there was something like the edifice of a city, verging toward the south
    3: And he led me into that place. And behold, there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a linen rope in his hand, and a measuring reed in his hand. And he was standing at the gate
    4: And the same man said to me: “Son of man, look with your eyes, and listen with your ears, and set your heart upon all that I will reveal to you. For you have been brought to this place, so that these things may be revealed to you. Announce all that you see to the house of Israel.
    5: And behold, there was a wall outside of the house, encircling it all around, and in the man’s hand was a measuring reed of six cubits and a palm. And he measured the width of the edifice with one reed; likewise, the height with one reed
    6: And he went to the gate which looked toward the east, and he ascended by its steps. And he measured the width of the threshold of the gate as one reed, that is, one threshold was one reed in width
    7: And a chamber was one reed in length and one reed in width. And between the chambers, there were five cubits
    8: And the threshold of the gate, next to the inner vestibule of the gate, was one reed
    9: And he measured the vestibule of the gate as eight cubits, and its front as two cubits. But the vestibule of the gate was inside
    10: Moreover, the chambers of the gate, toward the way of the east, were three from one side to the other. The three were of one measure, and the fronts were of one measure, on both sides
    11: And he measured the width of the threshold of the gate as ten cubits, and the length of the gate as thirteen cubits
    12: And before the chambers, the border was one cubit. And on both sides, the border was one cubit. But the chambers were six cubits, from one side to the other
    13: And he measured the gate, from the roof of one chamber to the roof of another, twenty-five cubits in width, from door to door
    14: And he found the fronts to be sixty cubits. And at the front, there was a court for the gate on every side all around
    15: And before the face of the gate, which extended even to the face of the vestibule of the gate of the interior, there were fifty cubits
    16: And there were slanting windows in the chambers and at their fronts, which were within the gate on every side all around. And similarly, there were also windows in the vestibules all around the interior, and there were images of palm trees before the fronts
    17: And he led me away to the outer court, and behold, there were storerooms and a layer of pavement stones throughout the court. Thirty storerooms encircled the pavement
    18: And the pavement in front of the gates, along the length of the gates, was lower
    19: And he measured the width, from the face of the lower gate to the front of the outer part of the inner court, to be one hundred cubits, to the east and to the north
    20: Likewise, he measured the gate of the outer court, which looked to the way of the north, to be as much in length as in width
    21: And its chambers were three from one side to the other. And its front and its vestibule, in accord with the measure of the former gate, were fifty cubits in its length and twenty-five cubits in width
    22: Now its windows, and the vestibule, and the engravings were in accord with the measure of the gate which looked to the east. And its ascent was by seven steps, and a vestibule was before it
    23: And the gate of the inner court was opposite the gate of the north, and that of the east. And he measured from gate to gate as one hundred cubits
    24: And he led me to the way of the south, and behold, there was a gate which looked toward the south. And he measured its front and its vestibule to be the same as the measures above
    25: And its windows and the vestibule all around were like the other windows: fifty cubits in length and twenty-five cubits in width
    26: And there were seven steps to ascend to it, and a vestibule before its doors. And there were engraved palm trees, one on each side, at its front
    27: And there was a gate at the inner court, on the way to the south. And he measured from one gate to another, on the way to the south, to be one hundred cubits
    28: And he led me into the inner court, to the south gate. And he measured the gate to be in accord with the measures above
    29: Its chamber, and its front, and its vestibule had the same measures. And its windows and its vestibule all around were fifty cubits in length, and twenty-five cubits in width
    30: And the vestibule all around was twenty-five cubits in length, and five cubits in width
    31: And its vestibule was toward the outer court, and its palm trees were at the front. And there were eight steps to ascend to it
    32: And he led me into the inner court, along the way of the east. And he measured the gate to be in accord with the measures above
    33: Its chamber, and its front, and its vestibule were as above. And its windows and its vestibules all around were fifty cubits in length, and twenty-five cubits in width
    34: And it had a vestibule, that is, at the outer court. And the engraved palm trees at its front were on one side and the other. And its ascent was by eight steps
    35: And he led me to the gate which looked toward the north. And he measured it to be in accord with the measures above
    36: Its chamber, and its front, and its vestibule, and its windows all around were fifty cubits in length, and twenty-five cubits in width
    37: And its vestibule looked toward the outer court. And an engraving of palm trees at its front was on one side and the other. And its ascent was by eight steps
    38: And at each one of the storerooms, there was a door at the front of the gates. There, they washed the holocaust
    39: And at the vestibule of the gate, there were two tables on one side, and two tables on the other side, so that the holocaust, and the offering for sin, and the offering for transgression could be immolated upon them
    40: And at the outer side, which ascends to the door of the gate that goes toward the north, there were two tables. And at the other side, before the vestibule of the gate, there were two tables
    41: Four tables were on one side, and four tables were on the other side; along the sides of the gate, there were eight tables, upon which they immolated
    42: Now the four tables for the holocausts were constructed of square stones: one and a half cubit in length, and one and a half cubits in width, and one cubit in height. Upon these, they placed the vessels, in which the holocaust and the victim were immolated
    43: And their edges were one palm in width, turned inward all around. And the flesh of the oblation was on the tables
    44: And outside the interior gate, there were storerooms for the cantors, in the inner court, which was beside the gate that looks toward the north. And their face was opposite the way to the south; one was beside the east gate, which looked toward the way of the north
    45: And he said to me: “This is the storeroom that looks toward the south; it shall be for the priests who keep watch for the protection of the temple
    46: Moreover, the storeroom that looks toward the north will be for the priests who keep watch over the ministry of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, those among the sons of Levi who may draw near to the Lord, so that they may minister to him.
    47: And he measured the court to be one hundred cubits in length, and one hundred cubits in width, with four equal sides. And the altar was before the face of the temple
    48: And he led me into the vestibule of the temple. And he measured the vestibule to be five cubits on one side, and five cubits on the other side. And the width of the gate was three cubits on one side, and three cubits on the other side
    49: Now the length of the vestibule was twenty cubits, and the width was eleven cubits, and there were eight steps to ascend to it. And there were pillars at the front, one on this side and another on that side

End of day 248.