Day 298:

Reading Luke, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: And there were present, at that very time, some who were reporting about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate mixed with their sacrifices
    2: And responding, he said to them: “Do you think that these Galileans must have sinned more than all other Galileans, because they suffered so much
    3: No, I tell you. But unless you repent, you will all perish similarly
    4: And those eighteen upon whom the tower of Siloam fell and killed them, do you think that they also were greater transgressors than all the men living in Jerusalem
    5: No, I tell you. But if you do not repent, you will all perish similarly.
    6: And he also told this parable: “A certain man had a fig tree, which was planted in his vineyard. And he came seeking fruit on it, but found none
    7: Then he said to the cultivator of the vineyard: ‘Behold, for these three years I came seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I have found none. Therefore, cut it down. For why should it even occupy the land?
    8: But in response, he said to him: ‘Lord, let it be for this year also, during which time I will dig around it and add fertilizer
    9: And, indeed, it should bear fruit. But if not, in the future, you shall cut it down.’ 
    10: Now he was teaching in their synagogue on the Sabbaths
    11: And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years. And she was bent over; and she was unable to look upwards at all
    12: And when Jesus saw her, he called her to himself, and he said to her, “Woman, you are released from your infirmity.
    13: And he laid his hands upon her, and immediately she was straightened, and she glorified God
    14: Then, as a result, the ruler of the synagogue became angry that Jesus had cured on the Sabbath, and he said to the crowd: “There are six days on which you ought to work. Therefore, come and be cured on those, and not on the day of the Sabbath.
    15: Then the Lord said to him in response: “You hypocrites! Does not each one of you, on the Sabbath, release his ox or donkey from the stall, and lead it to water
    16: So then, should not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound for lo these eighteen years, be released from this restraint on the day of the Sabbath?
    17: And as he was saying these things, all his adversaries were ashamed. And all the people rejoiced in everything that was being done gloriously by him
    18: And so he said: “To what is the kingdom of God similar, and to what figure shall I compare it
    19: It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden. And it grew, and it became a great tree, and the birds of the air rested in its branches.
    20: And again, he said: “To what figure shall I compare the kingdom of God
    21: It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of fine wheat flour, until it was entirely leavened.
    22: And he was traveling through the cities and towns, teaching and making his way to Jerusalem
    23: And someone said to him, “Lord, are they few who are saved?” But he said to them
    24: “Strive to enter through the narrow gate. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and not be able
    25: Then, when the father of the family will have entered and shut the door, you will begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, open to us.’ And in response, he will say to you, ‘I do not know where you are from.
    26: Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.
    27: And he will say to you: ‘I do not know where you are from. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity!
    28: In that place, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, yet you yourselves are expelled outside
    29: And they will arrive from the East, and the West, and the North, and the South; and they will recline at table in the kingdom of God
    30: And behold, those who are last will be first, and those who are first will be last.
    31: On the same day, some of the Pharisees approached, saying to him: “Depart, and go away from here. For Herod wishes to kill you.
    32: And he said to them: “Go and tell that fox: ‘Behold, I cast out demons and accomplish healings, today and tomorrow. And on the third day I reach the end.
    33: Yet truly, it is necessary for me to walk today and tomorrow and the following day. For it does not fall to a prophet to perish beyond Jerusalem
    34: Jerusalem, Jerusalem! You kill the prophets, and you stone those who are sent to you. Daily, I wanted to gather together your children, in the manner of a bird with her nest under her wings, but you were not willing
    35: Behold, your house will be left desolate for you. But I say to you, that you shall not see me, until it happens that you say: ‘Blessed is he who has arrived in the name of the Lord.’ 

  Chapter 14.

    1: And it happened that, when Jesus entered the house of a certain leader of the Pharisees on the Sabbath to eat bread, they were observing him
    2: And behold, a certain man before him was afflicted with edema
    3: And responding, Jesus spoke to the experts in the law and to the Pharisees, saying, “Is it lawful to cure on the Sabbath?
    4: But they kept silent. Yet truly, taking hold of him, he healed him and sent him away
    5: And responding to them, he said, “Which of you will have a donkey or an ox fall into a pit, and will not promptly pull him out, on the day of the Sabbath?
    6: And they were unable to respond to him about these things
    7: Then he also told a parable, to those who were invited, noticing how they chose the first seats at the table, saying to them
    8: “When you are invited to a wedding, do not sit down in the first place, lest perhaps someone more honored than yourself may have been invited by him
    9: And then he who called both you and him, approaching, may say to you, ‘Give this place to him.’ And then you would begin, with shame, to take the last place
    10: But when you are invited, go, sit down in the lowest place, so that, when he who invited you arrives, he may say to you, ‘Friend, go up higher.’ Then you will have glory in the sight of those who sit at table together with you
    11: For everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, and whoever humbles himself shall be exalted.
    12: Then he also said to the one who had invited him: “When you prepare a lunch or dinner, do not choose to call your friends, or your brothers, or your relatives, or your wealthy neighbors, lest perhaps they might then invite you in return and repayment would made to you
    13: But when you prepare a feast, call the poor, the disabled, the lame, and the blind
    14: And you will be blessed because they do not have a way to repay you. So then, your recompense will be in the resurrection of the just.
    15: When someone sitting at table with him had heard these things, he said to him, “Blessed is he who will eat bread in the kingdom of God.
    16: So he said to him: “A certain man prepared a great feast, and he invited many
    17: And he sent his servant, at the hour of the feast, to tell the invited to come; for now everything was ready
    18: And at once they all began to make excuses. The first said to him: ‘I bought a farm, and I need to go out and see it. I ask you to excuse me.
    19: And another said: ‘I bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to examine them. I ask you to excuse me.
    20: And another said, ‘I have taken a wife, and therefore I am not able to go.
    21: And returning, the servant reported these things to his lord. Then the father of the family, becoming angry, said to his servant: ‘Go out quickly into the streets and neighborhoods of the city. And lead here the poor, and the disabled, and the blind, and the lame.
    22: And the servant said: ‘It has been done, just as you ordered, lord, and there is still room.
    23: And the lord said to the servant: ‘Go out to the highways and hedges, and compel them to enter, so that my house may be filled
    24: For I tell you, that none of those men who were invited will taste of my feast.’ 
    25: Now great crowds traveled with him. And turning around, he said to them
    26: “If anyone comes to me, and does not hate his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brothers, and sisters, and yes, even his own life, he is not able to be my disciple
    27: And whoever does not bear his cross and come after me, is not able to be my disciple
    28: For who among you, wanting to build a tower, would not first sit down and determine the costs that are required, to see if he has the means to complete it
    29: Otherwise, after he will have laid the foundation and not been able to finish it, everyone who sees it may begin to mock him
    30: saying: ‘This man began to build what he was not able to finish.
    31: Or, what king, advancing to engage in war against another king, would not first sit down and consider whether he may be able, with ten thousand, to meet one who comes against him with twenty thousand
    32: If not, then while the other is still far away, sending a delegation, he would ask him for terms of peace
    33: Therefore, everyone of you who does not renounce all that he possesses is not able to be my disciple
    34: Salt is good. But if the salt has lost its flavor, with what will it be seasoned
    35: It is useful neither in soil, nor in manure, so instead, it shall be thrown away. Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.

  Chapter 15.

    1: Now tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to him, so that they might listen to him
    2: And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, “This one accepts sinners and eats with them.
    3: And he told this parable to them, saying
    4: “What man among you, who has one hundred sheep, and if he will have lost one of them, would not leave the ninety-nine in the desert and go after the one whom he had lost, until he finds it
    5: And when he has found it, he places it on his shoulders, rejoicing
    6: And returning home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them: ‘Congratulate me! For I have found my sheep, which had been lost.
    7: I say to you, that there will be so much more joy in heaven over one sinner repenting, than over the ninety-nine just, who do not need to repent
    8: Or what woman, having ten drachmas, if she will have lost one drachma, would not light a candle, and sweep the house, and diligently search until she finds it
    9: And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying: ‘Rejoice with me! For I have found the drachma, which I had lost.
    10: So I say to you, there will be joy before the Angels of God over even one sinner who is repentant.
    11: And he said: “A certain man had two sons
    12: And the younger of them said to the father, ‘Father, give me the portion of your estate which would go to me.’ And he divided the estate between them
    13: And after not many days, the younger son, gathering it all together, set out on a long journey to a distant region. And there, he dissipated his substance, living in luxury
    14: And after he had consumed it all, a great famine occurred in that region, and he began to be in need
    15: And he went and attached himself to one of the citizens of that region. And he sent him to his farm, in order to feed the swine
    16: And he wanted to fill his belly with the scraps that the swine ate. But no one would give it to him
    17: And returning to his senses, he said: ‘How many hired hands in my father’s house have abundant bread, while I perish here in famine
    18: I shall rise up and go to my father, and I will say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you
    19: I am not worthy to be called your son. Make me one of your hired hands.
    20: And rising up, he went to his father. But while he was still at a distance, his father saw him, and he was moved with compassion, and running to him, he fell upon his neck and kissed him
    21: And the son said to him: ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. Now I am not worthy to be called your son.
    22: But the father said to his servants: ‘Quickly! Bring out the best robe, and clothe him with it. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet
    23: And bring the fatted calf here, and kill it. And let us eat and hold a feast
    24: For this son of mine was dead, and has revived; he was lost, and is found.’ And they began to feast
    25: But his elder son was in the field. And when he returned and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing
    26: And he called one of the servants, and he questioned him as to what these things meant
    27: And he said to him: ‘Your brother has returned, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safely.
    28: Then he became indignant, and he was unwilling to enter. Therefore, his father, going out, began to plead with him
    29: And in response, he said to his father: ‘Behold, I have been serving you for so many years. And I have never transgressed your commandment. And yet, you have never given me even a young goat, so that I might feast with my friends
    30: Yet after this son of yours returned, who has devoured his substance with loose women, you have killed the fatted calf for him.
    31: But he said to him: ‘Son, you are with me always, and all that I have is yours
    32: But it was necessary to feast and to rejoice. For this brother of yours was dead, and has revived; he was lost, and is found.’ 

  Chapter 16.

    1: And he also said to his disciples: “A certain man was wealthy, and he had a steward of his estate. And this man was accused to him of having dissipated his goods
    2: And he called him and said to him: ‘What is this that I hear about you? Give an account of your stewardship. For you can no longer be my steward.
    3: And the steward said within himself: ‘What shall I do? For my lord is taking the stewardship away from me. I am not strong enough to dig. I am too ashamed to beg
    4: I know what I will do so that, when I have been removed from the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
    5: And so, calling together each one of his lord’s debtors, he said to the first, ‘How much do you owe my lord?
    6: So he said, ‘One hundred jars of oil.’ And he said to him, ‘Take your invoice, and quickly, sit down and write fifty.
    7: Next, he said to another, ‘In truth, how much do you owe?’ And he said, ‘One hundred measures of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take your record books, and write eighty.
    8: And the lord praised the iniquitous steward, in that he had acted prudently. For the sons of this age are more prudent with their generation than are the sons of light
    9: And so I say to you, make friends for yourself using iniquitous mammon, so that, when you will have passed away, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles
    10: Whoever is faithful in what is least, is also faithful in what is greater. And whoever is unjust in what is small, is also unjust in what is greater
    11: So then, if you have not been faithful with iniquitous mammon, who will trust you with what is true
    12: And if you have not been faithful with what belongs to another, who will give you what is yours
    13: No servant is able to serve two lords. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will cling to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.
    14: But the Pharisees, who were greedy, were listening to all these things. And they ridiculed him
    15: And he said to them: “You are the ones who justify yourselves in the sight of men. But God knows your hearts. For what is lifted up by men is an abomination in the sight of God
    16: The law and the prophets were until John. Since then, the kingdom of God is being evangelized, and everyone acts with violence toward it
    17: But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one dot of the law to fall away
    18: Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. And whoever marries her who has been divorced by her husband commits adultery
    19: A certain man was wealthy, and he was clothed in purple and in fine linen. And he feasted splendidly every day
    20: And there was a certain beggar, named Lazarus, who lay at his gate, covered with sores
    21: wanting to be filled with the crumbs which were falling from the wealthy man’s table. But no one gave it to him. And even the dogs came and licked his sores
    22: Then it happened that the beggar died, and he was carried by the Angels into the bosom of Abraham. Now the wealthy man also died, and he was entombed in Hell
    23: Then lifting up his eyes, while he was in torments, he saw Abraham far away, and Lazarus in his bosom
    24: And crying out, he said: ‘Father Abraham, take pity on me and send Lazarus, so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water to refresh my tongue. For I am tortured in this fire.
    25: And Abraham said to him: ‘Son, recall that you received good things in your life, and in comparison, Lazarus received bad things. But now he is consoled, and truly you are tormented
    26: And besides all this, between us and you a great chaos has been established, so that those who might want to cross from here to you are not able, nor can someone cross from there to here.
    27: And he said: ‘Then, father, I beg you to send him to my father’s house, for I have five brothers
    28: so that he may testify to them, lest they also come into this place of torments.
    29: And Abraham said to him: ‘They have Moses and the prophets. Let them listen to them.
    30: So he said: ‘No, father Abraham. But if someone were to go to them from the dead, they would repent.
    31: But he said to him: ‘If they will not listen to Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe even if someone has resurrected from the dead.’ 

End of day 298.