Day 196:

Reading Sirach, chapters ['16', '17', '18', '19']:

  Chapter 16.

    1: You should not rejoice in impious children, if they are successful; nor should you take delight in them, if the fear of God is not in them
    2: You should not approve of their life, nor should you look with favor on their labors
    3: For one child who fears God is better than one thousand impious children
    4: And it is better to die without children, than to leave behind impious children
    5: By means of one person with understanding, a country will be inhabited. The tribe of the impious will become desolate
    6: Many such things my eyes have seen, and greater things than these my ear has heard
    7: In the synagogue of sinners, a fire will blaze forth; and amid an unbelieving people, wrath will flare up
    8: The giants of antiquity did not obtain pardon for their sins; they were destroyed by trusting in their own abilities
    9: And he did not spare the place of Lot’s sojourn, and he abhorred them because of the arrogance of their words
    10: He did not take pity on them, destroying an entire people, who even extolled themselves concerning their sins
    11: And this was so with six hundred thousand men, who were gathered together in the hardness of their hearts. And if  even a single obstinate person had escaped unpunished, it would be a wonder
    12: For mercy and wrath are with him. He is powerful in forgiveness, and he pours forth wrath
    13: As is his mercy, so also is his correction; he judges a man according to his works
    14: The sinner, in his violations, will not escape; but the patience of the One who shows mercy will not be diminished
    15: Every mercy will make a place for each man, according to the merit of his works, and according to the understanding of his sojourn
    16: You should not say: “I am hidden from God,” or, “Who, from on high, will take note of me?
    17: or, “Among a great number of people, I will not be noticed. For what is my soul amid such an immense creation?
    18: Behold: the heavens, and the heaven of the heavens, the abyss, and the entire earth, and the things that are within these, will be shaken by his gaze
    19: together with mountains and hills, and the foundations of the earth. When God casts his gaze upon them, they will be struck with trembling
    20: And concerning all these things, the heart is without understanding; but every heart is understood by him
    21: And who will understand his ways, or the tempest, which no eye of man will see
    22: For many of his works are concealed. But who will announce the works of his justice? Or who will endure them? For the testament is far from some persons, and the examination of each thing is in its end
    23: Whoever diminishes the heart, thinks empty thoughts. For the imprudent and erring man thinks up foolishness
    24: Listen to me, son, and learn the discipline of understanding, and attend to my words in your heart
    25: And I will speak with equity about discipline, and I will strive to announce wisdom. So attend to my words in your heart, and I will speak with equity of spirit, about the virtues that God has set within his works from the beginning, and I will announce his knowledge in truth
    26: With the judgment of God, his works have been done from the beginning; and from their institution, he himself distinguished their parts and set their beginnings, in their kinds
    27: He has beautified their works unto eternity. They have neither hungered, nor labored, and they have not ceased from their works
    28: Neither will any one of them cause anguish to his neighbor, forever
    29: You should not be incredulous at his word
    30: Afterward, God looked with favor upon the earth, and he filled it with his goodness
    31: The soul of every living thing brought word from before his face, and their return again is to him

  Chapter 17.

    1: God created man from the earth, and he made him according to his own image
    2: And he returned him again to it, and he clothed him with virtue according to himself
    3: He gave him the number and time of his days, and he gave him authority over all the things that are upon the earth
    4: He placed the fear of him over all flesh, and he had dominion over wild beasts and flying things
    5: He created from him a helper, similar to himself. He gave them counsel, and language, and sight, and hearing, and a heart, in order to think. And he filled them with the discipline of understanding
    6: He created within them the knowledge of the spirit. He filled their heart with understanding, and he showed them both good and evil
    7: He set his eye upon their hearts, to reveal to them the greatness of his works
    8: so that they might highly praise the name of sanctification, and give glory to his wonders, so that they might declare the greatness of his works
    9: In addition, he gave them discipline and the law of life, as their inheritance
    10: He established an eternal covenant with them, and he revealed to them his justice and judgments
    11: And their eye saw the greatness of his honor, and their ears heard the honor of his voice, and he said to them: “Beware of all iniquity.
    12: And he commanded each one concerning his neighbor
    13: Their ways are always in his sight; they are not hidden from his eyes
    14: Over each and every people, he has appointed a ruler
    15: And Israel was made to be the manifest portion of God
    16: And in the sight of God, all their works are like the sun. And his eyes, without ceasing, inspect their ways
    17: The covenants are not hidden by their iniquity, and all their iniquities are in the sight of God
    18: The almsgiving of a man is like a seal upon him, which will guard the grace of a man like the pupil of an eye
    19: And afterward, it will rise up and repay them their reward, each one upon his head, and it will return to the hidden places of the earth
    20: Now, to the repentant, he has given the way of justice, and he has strengthened those lacking in patience, and he has fastened them to a destiny of truth
    21: Convert to the Lord, and relinquish your sins
    22: Make supplication before the face of the Lord, and diminish your offenses
    23: Return to the Lord, and turn away from your injustice, and have immense hatred for abomination
    24: And acknowledge the justices and judgments of God, and stand firm in the circumstances set before you and in prayer to the most high God
    25: Go to the side of the holy generation, to those who live in order to give praise to God
    26: You should not linger in the error of the impious; confess before death. Confession perishes from the dead as if it were nothing
    27: Confess while living; you should give thanks while you are still alive and healthy. And you should praise God and glory in his compassion
    28: How great is the mercy of the Lord, and his forgiveness, for those who convert to him
    29: For not all things can be in men, because the son of man is not immortal, and because they are pleased by the emptiness of malice
    30: What is brighter than the sun? Yet this will fail. Or what is more wicked than that which flesh and blood has invented? And this will be reproved
    31: He beholds the power of the heights of heaven. And all men are earth and ashes

  Chapter 18.

    1: The One who dwells in eternity created all things together. God alone will be justified, and he remains an invincible King for eternity
    2: Who is able to declare his works
    3: For who can examine his greatness
    4: And who will announce the power of his magnitude? Or who would be able to describe his mercy
    5: There is no diminishing, and no increasing, and there is no discovering, the greatness of God
    6: When man has reached the end, then he will begin. And when he ceases, he will be in need
    7: What is man, and what is his grace? And what is his good, or what is his evil
    8: The number of the days of men are as many as one hundred years. Like a drop of water in the ocean, so they are considered to be. And like a grain of sand on the shore, so do these few years compare to the days of all time
    9: For this reason, God is patient with them, and he pours forth his mercy upon them
    10: He has seen that the presumption of their heart is evil, and he knows that their rebelliousness is wicked
    11: Therefore, he has bestowed his forgiveness on them, and he has revealed to them the way of equity
    12: The compassion of man is toward those closest to him. But the mercy of God is upon all flesh
    13: He is merciful, and he teaches and corrects, like a shepherd with his flock
    14: He takes pity on those who accept the doctrine of compassion, and he applies his judgments promptly
    15: Son, in your good works, you should not complain, and in giving anything, you should not cause grief with evil words
    16: Is heat not refreshed by the dew? So also is a good word better than a gift
    17: Behold, is a word not greater than a gift? But both are with a justified man
    18: The foolish place blame sharply. And a gift from the undisciplined causes the eyes to fail
    19: Before you judge, put justice in order within yourself, and before you speak, learn
    20: Before you become sick, obtain medicine. And before you judge, examine yourself. And then you will find forgiveness in the sight of God
    21: Before you become weak, humble yourself; and in a time of infirmity, show your way of life
    22: Let nothing impede you from praying always. And then you will not dread to be justified, even unto death. For the reward of God dwells in eternity
    23: Before you pray, prepare your soul. And do not choose to be like a man who tempts God
    24: Remember the wrath that will be on the day of consummation, and remember the time of retribution, when he will turn away his face
    25: Remember poverty in a time of abundance, and remember the deficiency of poverty in a day of riches
    26: From morning until evening, the time will be changed, and all these are swift in the eyes of God
    27: A wise man will be cautious in all things, and during a time of many offenses, he will be attentive against inaction
    28: Anyone who is astute recognizes wisdom, and he will acknowledge anyone who finds it
    29: Those who show understanding with words also have acted wisely themselves, and they have understood truth and justice, and they have fulfilled proverbs and judgments
    30: You should not go after your desires; instead, turn away from your own will
    31: If you offer your desires to your soul, this will cause you to become a joy to your enemies
    32: Take no delight in disorderly gatherings, whether large or small. For their commission of offenses is unceasing
    33: You should not be reduced by the contention of borrowing, even if there is nothing in your purse. For you would be contending against your own life

  Chapter 19.

    1: An inebriated worker will not be wealthy. And whoever despises littleness will fall a little at a time
    2: Wine and women cause wise men to fall away, and then they will complain against those who understand
    3: And whoever joins himself to fornicators will become wicked. Decay and worms will inherit him, and he will be denounced as the greater example, and his soul will be deducted from the number
    4: Whoever is quick to believe has a trivial heart and will be diminished. And whoever offends against his own soul will have even less
    5: Whoever rejoices in iniquity will be condemned. And whoever hates correction will have less in life. But whoever hates excessive talk extinguishes evil
    6: Whoever sins against his own soul will be punished. And whoever rejoices in malice will be condemned
    7: You should not repeat a wicked and harsh word, and then you will not be diminished
    8: Do not reveal your mind to friend or foe. And if there is a sin within you, do not disclose it
    9: For he will listen to you and watch you, and while pretending to defend your sin, he will despise you, and so he will be whenever he is with you
    10: Have you heard a word against your neighbor? Let it die within you, trusting that it will not burst forth from you
    11: Before the face of a word, a foolish man labors, like a woman groaning as she gives birth to a child
    12: Like an arrow fixed in the flesh of the thigh, so is a word in the heart of a foolish man
    13: Correct a friend, though perhaps there was a misunderstanding, and he may say, “I did not do it.” Or, if he did do it, correct him, so that he may not do it again
    14: Correct your neighbor, for perhaps he did not say it. But if he did say it, correct him, so that he may not say it again
    15: Correct your friend. For often a fault has been committed
    16: And do not believe every word. There is one who slips with his word, but not with his heart
    17: For who is there who has not offended with his words? Correct your neighbor before you reprimand him
    18: And make a place for the fear of the Most High. For all wisdom is fear of God, and it is wise to fear God, and in all wisdom is the orderly disposition of the law
    19: But the discipline of wickedness is not wisdom. And there is no prudence in the thoughts of sinners
    20: There is a wickedness, and in it there is abomination. And there is a foolish man who has been diminished in wisdom
    21: Better is a man who has been diminished in wisdom because his mind is failing, but with the fear of God, than he who abounds in intelligence, but with transgression against the law of the Most High
    22: There is a certain cleverness, and it is unjust
    23: And there is one who utters a careful word, explaining away the truth. There is one who humbles himself wickedly, for his interior is filled with deceit
    24: And there is one who lowers himself excessively with a great debasement. And there is one who inclines his face downward, and pretends as if he did not see what has not been made known
    25: And if he is prevented from sinning by a lack of ability, and then finds an opportunity for evildoing, he will do evil
    26: A man is recognized by his appearances. But when you meet an understanding man, he is recognized by his face
    27: The clothing of the body, and the laughter of the teeth, and the walk of a man, give a report about him
    28: There is a lying correction in the anger of a contemptuous man. And there is a judgment which does not prove to be good. But there is one who is silent, and the same is prudent

End of day 196.