Day 288:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And after six days, Jesus took Peter and James and his brother John, and he led them onto a lofty mountain separately
    2: And he was transfigured before them. And his face shined brightly like the sun. And his garments were made white like snow
    3: And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, speaking with him
    4: And Peter responded by saying to Jesus: “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you are willing, let us make three tabernacles here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.
    5: And while he was still speaking, behold, a shining cloud overshadowed them. And behold, there was a voice from the cloud, saying: “This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him.
    6: And the disciples, hearing this, fell prone on their face, and they were very afraid
    7: And Jesus drew near and touched them. And he said to them, “Rise up and do not be afraid.
    8: And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, except Jesus alone
    9: And as they were descending from the mountain, Jesus instructed them, saying, “Tell no one about the vision, until the Son of man has risen from the dead.
    10: And his disciples questioned him, saying, “Why then do the scribes say that it is necessary for Elijah to arrive first?
    11: But in response, he said to them: “Elijah, indeed, shall arrive and restore all things
    12: But I say to you, that Elijah has already arrived, and they did not recognize him, but they did whatever they wanted to him. So also shall the Son of man suffer from them.
    13: Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist
    14: And when he had arrived at the multitude, a man approached him, falling to his knees before him, saying: “Lord, take pity on my son, for he is an epileptic, and he suffers harm. For he frequently falls into fire, and often also into water
    15: And I brought him to your disciples, but they were not able to cure him.
    16: Then Jesus responded by saying: “What an unbelieving and perverse generation! How long shall I be with you? How long shall I endure you? Bring him here to me.
    17: And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon went out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour
    18: Then the disciples approached Jesus privately and said, “Why were we unable to cast him out?
    19: Jesus said to them: “Because of your unbelief. Amen I say to you, certainly, if you will have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it shall move. And nothing will be impossible for you
    20: But this kind is not cast out, except through prayer and fasting.
    21: And when they were conversing together in Galilee, Jesus said to them: “The Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men
    22: And they will kill him, but he will rise again on the third day.” And they were extremely saddened
    23: And when they had arrived at Capernaum, those who collected the half shekel approached Peter, and they said to him, “Doesn’t your Teacher pay the half shekel?
    24: He said, “Yes.” And when he had entered into the house, Jesus went before him, saying: “How does it seem to you, Simon? The kings of the earth, from whom do they receive tribute or the census tax: from their own sons or from foreigners?
    25: And he said, “From foreigners.” Jesus said to him: “Then the sons are free
    26: But so that we may not become an obstacle to them: go to the sea, and cast in a hook, and take the first fish that is brought up, and when you have opened its mouth, you will find a shekel. Take it and give it to them, for me and for you.

  Chapter 18.

    1: In that hour, the disciples drew near to Jesus, saying, “Whom do you consider to be greater in the kingdom of heaven?
    2: And Jesus, calling to himself a little child, placed him in their midst
    3: And he said: “Amen I say to you, unless you change and become like little children, you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven
    4: Therefore, whoever will have humbled himself like this little child, such a one is greater in the kingdom of heaven
    5: And whoever shall accept one such little child in my name, accepts me
    6: But whoever will have led astray one of these little ones, who trust in me, it would be better for him to have a great millstone hung around his neck, and to be submerged in the depths of the sea
    7: Woe to a world that leads people astray! Although it is necessary for temptations to arise, nevertheless: Woe to that man through whom temptation arises
    8: So if your hand or your foot leads you to sin, cut it off and cast it away from you. It is better for you to enter into life disabled or lame, than to be sent into eternal fire having two hands or two feet
    9: And if your eye leads you to sin, root it out and cast it away from you. It is better for you to enter into life with one eye, than to be sent into the fires of Hell having two eyes
    10: See to it that you do not despise even one of these little ones. For I say to you, that their Angels in heaven continually look upon the face of my Father, who is in heaven
    11: For the Son of man has come to save what had been lost
    12: How does it seem to you? If someone has one hundred sheep, and if one of them has gone astray, should he not leave behind the ninety-nine in the mountains, and go out to seek what has gone astray
    13: And if he should happen to find it: Amen I say to you, that he has more joy over that one, than over the ninety-nine which did not go astray
    14: Even so, it is not the will before your Father, who is in heaven, that one of these little ones should be lost
    15: But if your brother has sinned against you, go and correct him, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you will have regained your brother
    16: But if he will not listen you, invite with you one or two more, so that every word may stand by the mouth of two or three witnesses
    17: And if he will not listen to them, tell the Church. But if he will not listen to the Church, let him be to you like the pagan and the tax collector
    18: Amen I say to you, whatever you will have bound on earth, shall be bound also in heaven, and whatever you will have released on earth, shall be released also in heaven
    19: Again I say to you, that if two of those among you have agreed on earth, about anything whatsoever that they have requested, it shall be done for them by my Father, who is in heaven
    20: For wherever two or three are gathered in my name, there am I, in their midst.
    21: Then Peter, drawing near to him, said: “Lord, how many times shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Even seven times?
    22: Jesus said to him: “I do not say to you, even seven times, but even seventy times seven times
    23: Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is compared to a man who was king, who wanted to take account of his servants
    24: And when he had begun taking account, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents
    25: But since he did not have any way to repay it, his lord ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children, and all that he had, in order to repay it
    26: But that servant, falling prostrate, begged him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will repay it all to you.
    27: Then the lord of that servant, being moved with pity, released him, and he forgave his debt
    28: But when that servant departed, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him one hundred denarius. And taking hold of him, he choked him, saying: ‘Repay what you owe.
    29: And his fellow servant, falling prostrate, petitioned him, saying: ‘Have patience with me, and I will repay it all to you.
    30: But he was not willing. Instead, he went out and had him sent to prison, until he would repay the debt
    31: Now his fellow servants, seeing what was done, were greatly saddened, and they went and reported to their lord all that was done
    32: Then his lord called him, and he said to him: ‘You wicked servant, I forgave you all your debt, because you pleaded with me
    33: Therefore, should you not also have had compassion on your fellow servant, just as I also had compassion on you?
    34: And his lord, being angry, handed him over to the torturers, until he repaid the entire debt
    35: So, too, shall my heavenly Father do to you, if each one of you will not forgive his brother from your hearts.

  Chapter 19.

    1: And it happened that, when Jesus had completed these words, he moved away from Galilee, and he arrived within the borders of Judea, across the Jordan
    2: And great crowds followed him, and he healed them there
    3: And the Pharisees approached him, testing him, and saying, “Is it lawful for a man to separate from his wife, no matter what the cause?
    4: And he said to them in response, “Have you not read that he who made man from the beginning, made them male and female?” And he said
    5: “For this reason, a man shall separate from father and mother, and he shall cling to his wife, and these two shall become one flesh
    6: And so, now they are not two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate.
    7: They said to him, “Then why did Moses command him to give a bill of divorce, and to separate?
    8: He said to them: “Although Moses permitted you to separate from your wives, due to the hardness of your heart, it was not that way from the beginning
    9: And I say to you, that whoever will have separated from his wife, except because of fornication, and who will have married another, commits adultery, and whoever will have married her who has been separated, commits adultery.
    10: His disciples said to him, “If such is the case for a man with a wife, then it is not expedient to marry.
    11: And he said to them: “Not everyone is able to grasp this word, but only those to whom it has been given
    12: For there are chaste persons who were born so from their mother’s womb, and there are chaste persons who have been made so by men, and there are chaste persons who have made themselves chaste for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Whoever is able to grasp this, let him grasp it.
    13: Then they brought to him little children, so that he would place his hands upon them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them
    14: Yet truly, Jesus said to them: “Allow the little children to come to me, and do not choose to prohibit them. For the kingdom of heaven is among such as these.
    15: And when he had imposed his hands upon them, he went away from there
    16: And behold, someone approached and said to him, “Good Teacher, what good should I do, so that I may have eternal life?
    17: And he said to him: “Why do you question me about what is good? One is good: God. But if you wish to enter into life, observe the commandments.
    18: He said to him, “Which?” And Jesus said: “You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony
    19: Honor your father and your mother. And, you shall love your neighbor as yourself.
    20: The young man said to him: “All these I have kept from my childhood. What is still lacking for me?
    21: Jesus said to him: “If you are willing to be perfect, go, sell what you have, and give to the poor, and then you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me.
    22: And when the young man had heard this word, he went away sad, for he had many possessions
    23: Then Jesus said to his disciples: “Amen, I say to you, that the wealthy shall enter with difficulty into the kingdom of heaven
    24: And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for the wealthy to enter into the kingdom of heaven.
    25: And upon hearing this, the disciples wondered greatly, saying: “Then who will be able to be saved?
    26: But Jesus, gazing at them, said to them: “With men, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible.
    27: Then Peter responded by saying to him: “Behold, we have left behind all things, and we have followed you. So then, what will be for us?
    28: And Jesus said to them: “Amen I say to you, that at the resurrection, when the Son of man shall sit on the seat of his majesty, those of you who have followed me shall also sit on twelve seats, judging the twelve tribes of Israel
    29: And anyone who has left behind home, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or land, for the sake of my name, shall receive one hundred times more, and shall possess eternal life
    30: But many of those who are first shall be last, and the last shall be first.

  Chapter 20.

    1: “The kingdom of heaven is like the father of a family who went out in early morning to lead workers into his vineyard
    2: Then, having made an agreement with the workers for one denarius per day, he sent them into his vineyard
    3: And going out about the third hour, he saw others standing idle in the marketplace
    4: And he said to them, ‘You may go into my vineyard, too, and what I will give you will be just.
    5: So they went forth. But again, he went out about the sixth, and about the ninth hour, and he acted similarly
    6: Yet truly, about the eleventh hour, he went out and found others standing, and he said to them, ‘Why have you stood here idle all day?
    7: They say to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You also may go into my vineyard.
    8: And when evening had arrived, the lord of the vineyard said to his manager, ‘Call the workers and pay them their wages, beginning from the last, even to the first.
    9: And so, when those who had arrived about the eleventh hour came forward, each received a single denarius
    10: Then when the first ones also came forward, they considered that they would receive more. But they, too, received one denarius
    11: And upon receiving it, they murmured against the father of the family
    12: saying, ‘These last have worked for one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who worked bearing the weight and heat of the day.
    13: But responding to one of them, he said: ‘Friend, I caused you no injury. Did you not agree with me to one denarius
    14: Take what is yours and go. But it is my will to give to this last, just as to you
    15: And is it not lawful for me to do what I will? Or is your eye wicked because I am good?
    16: So then, the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. For many are called, but few are chosen.
    17: And Jesus, ascending to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples aside in private and said to them
    18: “Behold, we are ascending to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall be handed over to the leaders of the priests and to the scribes. And they shall condemn him to death
    19: And they shall hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and scourged and crucified. And on the third day, he shall rise again.
    20: Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him, with her sons, adoring him, and petitioning something from him
    21: And he said to her, “What do you want?” She said to him, “Declare that these, my two sons, may sit, one at your right hand, and the other at your left, in your kingdom.
    22: But Jesus, responding, said: “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink from the chalice, from which I will drink?” They said to him, “We are able.
    23: He said to them: “From my chalice, indeed, you shall drink. But to sit at my right or my left is not mine to give to you, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.
    24: And the ten, upon hearing this, became indignant with the two brothers
    25: But Jesus called them to himself and said: “You know that the first ones among the Gentiles are their rulers, and that those who are greater exercise power among them
    26: It shall not be this way among you. But whoever will want to be greater among you, let him be your minister
    27: And whoever will want to be first among you, he shall be your servant
    28: even as the Son of man has not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a redemption for many.
    29: And as they were departing from Jericho, a great crowd followed him
    30: And behold, two blind men, sitting by the way, heard that Jesus was passing by; and they cried out, saying, “Lord, Son of David, take pity on us.
    31: But the crowd rebuked them to be quiet. But they cried out all the more, saying, “Lord, Son of David, take pity on us.
    32: And Jesus stood still, and he called them and said, “What do you want, that I might do for you?
    33: They said to him, “Lord, that our eyes be opened.
    34: Then Jesus, taking pity on them, touched their eyes. And immediately they saw, and they followed him

End of day 288.