Day 261:

Reading Amos, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Listen to this word, which I lift over you in lamentation. The house of Israel has fallen, and it will no longer rise again
    2: The virgin of Israel has been thrown onto her land, there is no one who can raise her up
    3: For thus says the Lord God: In the city from which a thousand departed, a hundred will remain, and in that from which a hundred departed, ten will remain, in the house of Israel
    4: For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: Seek me and you will live
    5: But do not be willing to seek Bethel, and do not be willing to enter Gilgal, and you will not cross into Beer-sheba. For Gilgal will be led into captivity, and Bethel will be useless
    6: Seek the Lord and live. Otherwise, the house of Joseph may be destroyed with fire, and it will devour, and there will be no one who can extinguish Bethel
    7: You turn judgment into wormwood, and you abandon justice on earth
    8: The Maker of Arcturus and Orion, who turns darkness into daybreak and who changes day into night; who calls forth the waters of the sea and who pours them out over the face of the earth: The Lord is his name
    9: It is he who smiles destruction on the healthy, and who brings pillaging upon the powerful
    10: They held hatred for the one who corrects at the gate, and they have abhorred the one who speaks perfectly
    11: Therefore, on his behalf, because you have torn apart the poor and stolen choice prey from him: you will build houses with square stones and you will not dwell in them; you will plant the most delightful vineyards, and you will not drink wine from them
    12: For I know your many wicked deeds and the strength of your sins, you enemies of the just, accepting bribes, and depriving the poor at the gate
    13: Therefore, the prudent will be silent at that time, for it is an evil time
    14: Seek good and not evil, so that you may live. And the Lord God of hosts will be with you, just as you have asked
    15: Hate evil and love good, and establish judgment at the gate. Perhaps then the Lord God of hosts may have mercy on the remnant of Joseph
    16: Therefore, thus says the Lord God of hosts, the Sovereign: In all the streets, there will be wailing. And in every place where they are outdoors, they will say, “Woe, woe!” And they will call the farmer to mourn, and those who know mourning to lamentation
    17: And in all the vineyards there will be wailing. For I will cross through your midst, says the Lord
    18: Woe to those who desire the day of the Lord. What is it to you? The day of the Lord is this: darkness and not light
    19: It is as if a man flees from the face of a lion, only to have a bear meet him; or, he enters a house and leans with his hand against the wall, only to have a snake bite him
    20: Will not the day of the Lord be darkness and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it
    21: I hate and have rejected your feasts; and I will not accept the odor from your gatherings
    22: For if you offer me holocausts and your gifts, I will not receive them; and I will not look upon the vows of your fatness
    23: Take away from me the tumult of your songs, and I will not listen to the canticles of your lyre
    24: And judgment will be revealed like water, and justice like a mighty torrent
    25: Was it you who offered victims and sacrifices to me in the desert for forty years, house of Israel
    26: And you carried a tabernacle for your Moloch and the image of your idols: the star of your god, which you made for yourselves
    27: And I will cause you to go into captivity across Damascus, says the Lord. The God of hosts is his name

  Chapter 6.

    1: Woe to you who have been wealthy in Zion, and to you who have confidence in the mountain of Samaria: aristocrats, heads of the people, who advance with a retinue into the house of Israel
    2: Cross over to Calneh and see, and go from there into Hamath the great, and descend into Gath of the Philistines, and to the best kingdoms of these, if their limits are wider than your limits
    3: You have been set aside for the day of disaster, and you approach the throne of iniquity
    4: You sleep on beds of ivory, and you are lustful on your couches. You devour lambs from the flock and calves from the midst of the herd
    5: You sing to the sound of stringed instruments; they consider themselves to have the musical abilities of David
    6: You drink wine in bowls, and you anoint with the best ointments; and they suffer nothing over the grief of Joseph
    7: Because of this, now they will depart at the head of those who go into captivity; and the faction of the lustful will be removed
    8: The Lord God has sworn by his own soul, the Lord God of hosts says: I detest the arrogance of Jacob, and I hate his houses, and I will hand over the city with its inhabitants
    9: For if there were ten men remaining in one house, even they will die
    10: And his closest relative will steal him away and will burn him, so that he may carry the bones out of the house. And he will say to him that is in the inner most rooms of the house, “Now is there any left that still belongs to you?
    11: And he will answer, “It is finished.” And he will say to him, “Be silent and do not call to mind the name of the Lord.
    12: For behold, the Lord has commanded, and he will strike the greater house with catastrophes, and the lesser house with divisions
    13: Can horses gallop across rocks, or is anyone able to plough with gazelles? For you have turned judgment into bitterness and the fruit of justice into wormwood
    14: You rejoice in emptiness. You say, “Have we not, by our own strength, taken horns for ourselves?
    15: For behold, house of Israel, I will raise up a people over you, says the Lord God of hosts, and they will crush you from the entrance of Hamath all the way to the burning of the desert

  Chapter 7.

    1: These things the Lord God has revealed to me. And behold, the locust was formed at the beginning of the germination during the latter rains, and behold, the latter rains came after the thundering of the king
    2: And it happened, when they had finally eaten all the grass in the land, that I said, “Lord God, be gracious, I beg you. Who will raise up Jacob, for he is little?
    3: The Lord has been merciful about this. “It will not be,” said the Lord
    4: These things the Lord God has revealed to me. And behold, the Lord God called for judgment unto fire, and it devoured the manifold abyss, and it consumed simultaneously in every direction
    5: And I said, “Lord God, cease, I beg you. Who will raise up Jacob, for he is little?
    6: The Lord has been merciful about this. “And even this will not be,” said the Lord God
    7: These things the Lord revealed to me. And behold, the Lord was standing near a plastered wall, and in his hand was a mason’s trowel
    8: And the Lord said to me, “What do you see, Amos?” And I said, “A mason’s trowel.” And the Lord said, “Behold, I will place the trowel in the midst of my people Israel. I will no longer plaster over them
    9: And the heights of the idol will be demolished, and the sanctuaries of Israel will be desolate. And I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
    10: And Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying: “Amos has rebelled against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to withstand all his sermons
    11: For Amos says this: ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel will be taken captive out of their own land.’ 
    12: And Amaziah said to Amos, “You, seer, go out and flee into the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there
    13: And in Bethel, do not prophesy any longer, because it is the king’s sanctuary, and it is the house of the kingdom.
    14: And Amos responded, and he said to Amasias, “I am not a prophet, and I am not the son of a prophet, but I am a herdsman plucking from wild fig trees
    15: And the Lord took me, when I was following the flock, and the Lord said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to my people Israel.’ 
    16: And now, hear the word of the Lord: You say, “You will not prophesy about Israel, and you will not rain your words upon the house of the idol.
    17: Because of that, the Lord says this: “Your wife will fornicate in the city, and your sons and your daughters will fall by the sword, and your soil will be measured with a string. And you will die on polluted land, and Israel will be taken into captivity out of their land.

  Chapter 8.

    1: These things the Lord has revealed to me. And behold, a hook to draw down fruit
    2: And he said, “What do you see, Amos?” And I said, “A hook to draw down fruit.” And the Lord said to me, “The end has come for my people Israel. I will no longer pass through them.
    3: And the hinges of the temple will creak in that day, says the Lord God. Many will die. Silence will be thrown away in all places
    4: Hear this, you who crush the poor and who make those in need of land to do without
    5: You say, “When will the first day of the month be over, so we can sell our wares, and the sabbath, so we can open the grain: in order that we may decrease the measure, and increase the price, and substitute deceitful scales
    6: in order that we may possess the destitute with money, and the poor for a pair of shoes, and may sell even the refuse of the grain?
    7: The Lord has sworn by the arrogance of Jacob: I will not forget, even to the end, all their works
    8: Will not the earth shudder over this, and all its inhabitants mourn, and all rise up like a river, and be cast out, and flow away like the river of Egypt
    9: And it will be in that day, says the Lord God, that the sun will decline at midday, and I will cause the earth to become dark on the day of light
    10: And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your hymns into lamentation. And I will put sackcloth over every one of your backs, and baldness on every head. And I will begin it like the mourning for an only-begotten son, and complete it like a bitter day
    11: Behold, the days pass, says the Lord, and I will send a famine on the earth: not a famine of bread, nor of thirst for water, but for hearing the word of the Lord
    12: And they will move even from sea to sea, and from the North all the way to the East. They will wander around seeking the word of the Lord, and they will not find it
    13: In that day, beautiful virgins, and young men, will fail because of thirst
    14: They swear by the offense of Samaria, and they say, “As your God lives, Dan,” and “The way of Beer-sheba lives.” And they will fall, and they will not rise up any more

End of day 261.