Day 165:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['117', '118', '119', '120']:

  Chapter 117.

    1: Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is forever
    2: Let Israel now say: For he is good, for his mercy is forever
    3: Let the house of Aaron now say: For his mercy is forever
    4: Let those who fear the Lord now say: For his mercy is forever
    5: In my tribulation, I called upon the Lord. And the Lord heeded me with generosity
    6: The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me
    7: The Lord is my helper. And I will look down upon my enemies
    8: It is good to trust in the Lord, rather than to trust in man
    9: It is good to hope in the Lord, rather than to hope in leaders
    10: All the nations have surrounded me. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them
    11: Surrounding me, they closed in on me. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them
    12: They surrounded me like a swarm, and they burned like fire among the thorns. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them
    13: Having been pushed, I was overturned so as to fall. But the Lord took me up
    14: The Lord is my strength and my praise. And he has become my salvation
    15: A voice of exultation and salvation is in the tabernacles of the just
    16: The right hand of the Lord has wrought virtue. The right hand of the Lord has exalted me. The right hand of the Lord has wrought virtue
    17: I will not die, but I will live. And I will declare the works of the Lord
    18: When chastising, the Lord chastised me. But he has not delivered me over to death
    19: Open the gates of justice to me. I will enter them, and I will confess to the Lord
    20: This is the gate of the Lord. The just will enter by it
    21: I will confess to you because you have heard me. And you have become my salvation
    22: The stone which the builders have rejected, this has become the head of the corner
    23: By the Lord has this been done, and it is a wonder before our eyes
    24: This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us exult and rejoice in it
    25: O Lord, grant salvation to me. O Lord, grant good prosperity
    26: Blessed is he who arrives in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord
    27: The Lord is God, and he has enlightened us. Establish a solemn day amid a dense crowd, even to the horn of the altar
    28: You are my God, and I will confess to you. You are my God, and I will exalt you. I will confess to you, for you have heeded me. And you have become my salvation
    29: Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is forever

  Chapter 118.

    1: Alleluia. ALEPH. Blessed are the immaculate in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord
    2: Blessed are those who examine his testimonies. They seek him with their whole heart
    3: For those who work iniquity have not walked in his ways
    4: You have ordered your commandments to be kept most diligently
    5: I wish that my ways may be directed so as to keep your justifications
    6: Then I will not be confounded, when I will look into all your commandments
    7: I will confess to you with honesty of heart. In this way, I have learned the judgments of your justice
    8: I will keep your justifications. Do not utterly abandon me
    9: BETH. By what does an adolescent correct his way? By keeping to your words
    10: With my whole heart, I have sought you. Do not let me be driven away from your commandments
    11: I have hidden your eloquence in my heart, so that I may not sin against you
    12: Blessed are you, O Lord. Teach me your justifications
    13: With my lips, I have pronounced all the judgments of your mouth
    14: I have been delighted in the way of your testimonies, as if in all riches
    15: I will be trained in your commandments, and I will consider your ways
    16: I will meditate on your justifications. I will not forget your words
    17: GHIMEL. Repay your servant, revive me; and I will keep your words
    18: Reveal to my eyes, and I will consider the wonders of your law
    19: I am a sojourner on the earth. Do not hide your commandments from me
    20: My soul has longed to desire your justifications at all times
    21: You have rebuked the arrogant. Those who decline from your commandments are accursed
    22: Take me away from disgrace and contempt, for I have sought your testimonies
    23: For even the leaders sat and spoke against me. But your servant has been trained in your justifications
    24: For your testimonies are also my meditation, and your justifications are my counsel
    25: DALETH. My soul has adhered to the pavement. Revive me according to your word
    26: I have declared my ways, and you have heeded me. Teach me your justifications
    27: Instruct me in the way of your justifications, and I will be trained in your wonders
    28: My soul has slumbered because of weariness. Confirm me in your words
    29: Remove the way of iniquity from me, and have mercy on me by your law
    30: I have chosen the way of truth. I have not forgotten your judgments
    31: I have adhered to your testimonies, O Lord. Do not be willing to confound me
    32: I have run by way of your commandments, when you enlarged my heart
    33: HE. O Lord, place the law before me, the way of your justifications, and I will always inquire into it
    34: Give me understanding, and I will examine your law. And I will keep it with my whole heart
    35: Lead me according to the path of your commandments, for I have desired this
    36: Bend my heart with your testimonies, and not with avarice
    37: Turn my eyes away, lest they see what is vain. Revive me in your way
    38: Station your eloquence with your servant, along with your fear
    39: Cut off my disgrace, which I have taken up, for your judgments are delightful
    40: Behold, I have longed for your commandments. Revive me in your fairness
    41: VAU. And let your mercy overwhelm me, O Lord: your salvation according to your eloquence
    42: And I will respond to those who reproach me by word, for I have hoped in your words
    43: And do not utterly take away the word of truth from my mouth. For in your judgments, I have hoped beyond hope
    44: And I will always keep your law, in this age and forever and ever
    45: And I have wandered far and wide, because I was seeking your commandments
    46: And I spoke of your testimonies in the sight of kings, and I was not confounded
    47: And I meditated on your commandments, which I loved
    48: And I lifted up my hands to your commandments, which I loved. And I was trained in your justifications
    49: ZAIN. Be mindful of your word to your servant, by which you have given me hope
    50: This has consoled me in my humiliation, for your word has revived me
    51: The arrogant act altogether iniquitously, but I have not turned aside from your law
    52: I called to mind your judgments of antiquity, O Lord, and I was consoled
    53: Faintness has taken hold of me, because of the sinners, those who abandon your law
    54: Your justifications were the subject of my worthy singing, in the place of my pilgrimage
    55: During the night, I remembered your name, O Lord, and I kept your law
    56: This has happened to me because I sought your justifications
    57: HETH. O Lord, my portion, I have said that I would keep your law
    58: I have beseeched your face with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word
    59: I have considered my ways, and I have turned my feet toward your testimonies
    60: I have been prepared, and I have not been disturbed, so that I may keep your commandments
    61: The ropes of the impious have encircled me, and I have not forgotten your law
    62: I arose in the middle of the night to confess to you, over the judgments of your justification
    63: I am a partaker with all those who fear you and who keep your commandments
    64: The earth, O Lord, is full of your mercy. Teach me your justifications
    65: TETH. You have done well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word
    66: Teach me goodness and discipline and knowledge, for I have trusted your commandments
    67: Before I was humbled, I committed offenses; because of this, I have kept to your word
    68: You are good, so in your goodness teach me your justifications
    69: The iniquity of the arrogant has been multiplied over me. Yet I will examine your commandments with all my heart
    70: Their heart has been curdled like milk. Truly, I have meditated on your law
    71: It is good for me that you humbled me, so that I may learn your justifications
    72: The law of your mouth is good for me, beyond thousands of gold and silver pieces
    73: IOD. Your hands have created me and formed me. Give me understanding, and I will learn your commandments
    74: Those who fear you will see me, and they will rejoice. For I have greatly hoped in your words
    75: I know, O Lord, that your judgments are fairness. And in your truth, you have humbled me
    76: Let it be your mercy that consoles me, according to your eloquence to your servant
    77: Let your compassion draw near to me, and I will live. For your law is my meditation
    78: Let the arrogant be confounded, for unjustly they have done iniquity to me. But I will be trained in your commandments
    79: Let those who fear you turn to me, along with those who know your testimonies
    80: Let my heart be immaculate in your justifications, so that I may not be confounded
    81: CAPH. My soul has faltered in your salvation, yet in your word, I have hoped beyond hope
    82: My eyes have failed in your eloquence, saying, “When will you console me?
    83: For I have become like a wineskin in the frost. I have not forgotten your justifications
    84: How many are the days of your servant? When will you bring judgment against those who persecute me
    85: The iniquitous have spoken fables to me. But these are unlike your law
    86: All your commandments are truth. They have been persecuting me unjustly: assist me
    87: They have nearly consumed me on earth. Yet I have not forsaken your commandments
    88: Revive me according to your mercy. And I will keep the testimonies of your mouth
    89: LAMED. O Lord, your word remains firm in heaven, for all eternity
    90: Your truth is from generation to generation. You have founded the earth, and it remains firm
    91: By your ordinance, the day perseveres. For all things are in service to you
    92: If your law had not been my meditation, then perhaps I would have perished in my humiliation
    93: I will not forget your justifications, for eternity. For by them, you have enlivened me
    94: I am yours. Accomplish my salvation. For I have inquired into your justifications
    95: The sinners have waited for me, in order to destroy me. I have understood your testimonies
    96: I have seen the end of the consummation of all things. Your commandment is exceedingly broad
    97: MEM. How have I loved your law, O Lord? It is my meditation all day long
    98: By your commandment, you have made me able to see far, beyond my enemies. For it is with me for eternity
    99: I have understood beyond all my teachers. For your testimonies are my meditation
    100: I have understood beyond the elders. For I have searched your commandments
    101: I have prohibited my feet from every evil way, so that I may keep your words
    102: I have not declined from your judgments, because you have stationed a law for me
    103: How sweet is your eloquence to my palate, more so than honey to my mouth
    104: I obtained understanding by your commandments. Because of this, I have hated every way of iniquity
    105: NUN. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my paths
    106: I have sworn it, and so I am determined to keep the judgments of your justice
    107: I have been altogether humbled, Lord. Revive me according to your word
    108: Make the willing offerings of my mouth well pleasing, Lord, and teach me your judgments
    109: My soul is always in my hands, and I have not forgotten your law
    110: Sinners have set a snare for me, yet I have not strayed from your commandments
    111: I have acquired your testimonies as an inheritance unto eternity, because they are the exultation of my heart
    112: I have inclined my heart to do your justifications for eternity, as a recompense
    113: SAMECH. I have hated the iniquitous, and I have loved your law
    114: You are my helper and my supporter. And in your word, I have greatly hoped
    115: Turn away from me, you malignant ones. And I will examine the commandments of my God
    116: Uphold me according to your eloquence, and I will live. And let me not be confounded in my expectation
    117: Help me, and I will be saved. And I will meditate always on your justifications
    118: You have despised all those who fell away from your judgments. For their intention is unjust
    119: I have considered all the sinners of the earth to be transgressors. Therefore, I have loved your testimonies
    120: Pierce my flesh with your fear, for I am afraid of your judgments
    121: AIN. I have accomplished judgment and justice. Do not hand me over to those who slander me
    122: Uphold your servant in what is good. And do not allow the arrogant to slander me
    123: My eyes have failed in your salvation and in the eloquence of your justice
    124: Deal with your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your justifications
    125: I am your servant. Give me understanding, so that I may know your testimonies
    126: It is time to act, O Lord. They have dissipated your law
    127: Therefore, I have loved your commandments beyond gold and topaz
    128: Because of this, I was directed toward all your commandments. I held hatred for every iniquitous way
    129: PHE. Your testimonies are wonderful. Therefore, my soul has been examined by them
    130: The declaration of your words illuminates, and it gives understanding to little ones
    131: I opened my mouth and drew breath, for I desired your commandments
    132: Gaze upon me and be merciful to me, according to the judgment of those who love your name
    133: Direct my steps according to your eloquence, and let no injustice rule over me
    134: Redeem me from the slanders of men, so that I may keep your commandments
    135: Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your justifications
    136: My eyes have gushed like springs of water, because they have not kept your law
    137: SADE. You are just, O Lord, and your judgment is right
    138: You have commanded justice: your testimonies and your truth even more so
    139: My zeal has caused me to pine away, because my enemies have forgotten your words
    140: Your eloquence has been greatly enflamed, and your servant has loved it
    141: I am young and treated with contempt. But I have not forgotten your justifications
    142: Your justice is justice for all eternity, and your law is truth
    143: Tribulation and anguish have found me. Your commandments are my meditation
    144: Your testimonies are fairness unto eternity. Give me understanding, and I will live
    145: COPH. I cried out with my whole heart. Heed me, O Lord. I will ask for your justifications
    146: I cried out to you. Save me, so that I may keep your commandments
    147: I arrived first in maturity, and so I cried out. For in your words, I have hoped beyond hope
    148: My eyes preceded the dawn for you, so that I might meditate on your eloquence
    149: Hear my voice according to your mercy, O Lord. And revive me according to your judgment
    150: Those who persecute me have drawn near to iniquity, but they have been brought far from your law
    151: You are near, O Lord, and all your ways are truth
    152: I have known from the beginning about your testimonies. For you founded them in eternity
    153: RES. See my humiliation and rescue me, for I have not forgotten your law
    154: Judge my judgment and redeem me. Revive me because of your eloquence
    155: Salvation is far from sinners, because they have not inquired about your justifications
    156: Many are your mercies, O Lord. Enliven me according to your judgment
    157: Many are those who persecute me and who trouble me. I have not turned away from your testimonies
    158: I saw the prevaricators, and I pine away. For they have not kept your word
    159: O Lord, see how I have loved your commandments. Revive me in your mercy
    160: The beginning of your words is truth. All the judgments of your justice are for eternity
    161: SIN. The leaders have persecuted me without cause. And my heart has been awed by your words
    162: I will rejoice over your eloquence, like one who has found many spoils
    163: I have held hatred for iniquity, and I have abhorred it. Yet I have loved your law
    164: Seven times a day, I uttered praise to you about the judgments of your justice
    165: Those who love your law have great peace, and there is no scandal for them
    166: I have waited for your salvation, O Lord. And I have loved your commandments
    167: My soul has kept to your testimonies and has loved them exceedingly
    168: I have served your commandments and your testimonies. For all my ways are before your sight
    169: TAU. O Lord, let my supplication draw near in your sight. Grant understanding to me according to your eloquence
    170: Let my petition enter before you. Rescue me according to your word
    171: A hymn will burst forth from my lips, when you will teach me your justifications
    172: My tongue will pronounce your eloquence. For all your commandments are fairness
    173: Let it be your hand that saves me. For I have chosen your commandments
    174: O Lord, I have longed for your salvation, and your law is my meditation
    175: My soul will live and will praise you, and your judgments will assist me
    176: I have gone astray like a sheep that is lost. Seek out your servant, for I have not forgotten your commandments

  Chapter 119.

    1: A Canticle in steps. When troubled, I cried out to the Lord, and he heard me
    2: O Lord, free my soul from lips of iniquity and from the deceitful tongue
    3: What will be given to you, or what will be added to you, for a deceitful tongue?
    4: the sharp arrows of the powerful, along with the burning coals of desolation
    5: Woe to me, for my sojourning has been prolonged. I have lived with the inhabitants of Kedar
    6: My soul has long been a sojourner
    7: With those who hated peace, I was peaceful. When I spoke to them, they fought against me without cause

  Chapter 120.

    1: A Canticle in steps. I have lifted up my eyes to the mountains; from thence help will come to me
    2: My help is from the Lord, who made heaven and earth
    3: May he not allow your foot to be moved, and may he not slumber, who guards you
    4: Behold, he who guards Israel will neither sleep, nor slumber
    5: The Lord is your keeper, the Lord is your protection, above your right hand
    6: The sun will not burn you by day, nor the moon by night
    7: The Lord guards you from all evil. May the Lord guard your soul
    8: May the Lord guard your entrance and your exit, from this time forward and even forever

End of day 165.