Day 114:

Reading Tobit, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Then Tobias responded to his father, and he said: “I will do everything just as you have instructed me, father
    2: But I do not know how to obtain this money. He does not know me, and I do not know him. What proof shall I give to him? And I do not know any part of the way, which leads to that place.
    3: Then his father answered him, and he said: “Indeed, I have a written agreement about that in my possession, which, when you show it to him, he will immediately repay it
    4: But go out now, and inquire after some faithful man, who would go with you to keep you safe in return for his wages, so that you may receive it while I am still alive.
    5: Then Tobias, departing, found a splendid young man, standing girded and seemingly ready for travel
    6: And not knowing that he was an Angel of God, he greeted him, and he said, “Where are you from, good young man?
    7: And so he answered, “From the sons of Israel.” And Tobias said to him, “Do you know the way that leads to the region of the Medes?
    8: And he answered: “I know it. And I have frequently walked through all its paths, and I stayed with Gabael, our brother, who lives in Rages, a city of the Medes, which is situated at the mount of Ecbatana.
    9: Tobias said to him, “I implore you, wait here for me, until I tell these same things to my father.
    10: Then Tobias, entering, revealed all these things to his father. Upon which, his father, in admiration, asked that he would enter to him
    11: And so, entering, he greeted him, and he said, “May gladness be always with you.
    12: And Tobit said, “What kind of gladness will be for me, since I sit in darkness and do not see the light of heaven?
    13: And the young man said to him, “Be steadfast in soul. Your cure from God is near.
    14: And so Tobit said to him, “Are you able to lead my son to Gabael in Rages, a city of the Medes? And when you return, I will pay you your wages.
    15: And the Angel said to him, “I will lead him, and I will bring him back to you.
    16: And Tobit responded to him, “I ask you to tell me: which family or which tribe are you from?
    17: And Raphael the Angel said, “Do you seek the family of the one you hire, or else the hired hand himself, to go with your son
    18: But, lest perhaps I cause you to worry: I am Azariah, the son of Hananiah the great.
    19: And Tobit responded, “You are from a great family. But I ask you, do not be angry that I wanted to know your family.
    20: But the Angel said to him, “I will lead your son safely, and I will bring him back safely to you.
    21: And so Tobit, answering, said, “May you walk well, and may God be with you on your journey, and may his Angel accompany you.
    22: Then, when all things were ready which were to be carried on their journey, Tobias said farewell to his father, and to his mother, and the two of them walked together
    23: And when they had set out, his mother began to weep, and to say: “You have taken the staff of our old age, and  you have sent him away from us
    24: I wish that the money, for which you sent him, had never been
    25: For our poverty has been sufficient for us, so that we might count it as riches that we saw our son.
    26: And Tobit said to her: “Do not weep. Our son will arrive safely, and he will return safely to us, and your eyes shall see him
    27: For I believe that the good Angel of God accompanies him and that he orders all things well which occur around him, such that he will be returned to us with gladness.
    28: At these words, his mother ceased weeping, and she was silent

  Chapter 6.

    1: And so Tobias continued on, and the dog was following him, and he stayed at the first stopping point, near the river Tigris
    2: And he went out to wash his feet, and behold, an immense fish came out to devour him
    3: And Tobias, being frightened of it, cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Sir, it is attacking me!
    4: And the Angel said to him, “Catch it by the gills, and draw it to you.” And when he had done so, he pulled it onto dry land, and it began to thrash before his feet
    5: Then the Angel said to him: “Disembowel this fish, and put aside his heart, and his gall, and his liver for yourself. For these things are necessary as useful medicines.
    6: And when he had done so, he roasted its flesh, and they took it with them on the way. The rest they salted, so that it might be sufficient for them, until they would arrive at Rages, a city of the Medes
    7: Then Tobias questioned the Angel, and he said to him, “I implore you, brother Azariah, to tell me what remedies these things hold, which you have told me to retain from the fish?
    8: And the Angel, answering, said to him: “If you put a little piece of its heart on burning coals, its smoke will drive away all kind of demons, whether from a man or from a woman, so that they will no longer approach them
    9: And the gall is useful for anointing the eyes, in which there may be a white speck, and they will be cured.
    10: And Tobias said to him, “Where do you prefer that we stay?
    11: And the Angel, responding, said: “Here is one named Raguel, a man closely related to you from your tribe, and he has a daughter named Sarah, but he has no other male or female, except her
    12: All his livelihood is dependent upon you, and you ought to take her to yourself in marriage
    13: Therefore, ask for her from her father, and he will give her to you as wife.
    14: Then Tobias responded, and he said: “I hear that she has been given to seven husbands, and they passed away. But I have even heard this: that a demon killed them
    15: Therefore, I am afraid, lest this may happen to me also. And since I am the only child of my parents, I might send their old age with sorrow to the grave.
    16: Then the Angel Raphael said to him: “Listen to me, and I will reveal to you who they are, over whom the demon can prevail
    17: For example, those who receive marriage in such manner as to exclude God from themselves and from their mind, and in such a manner as to empty themselves to their lust, like the horse and mule, which have no understanding, over them the demon has power
    18: But you, when you will have accepted her, enter the bedroom and for three days keep yourself continent from her, and empty yourself to nothing other than prayers with her
    19: Moreover, on that night, burn the liver of the fish like incense, and the demon will be put to flight
    20: In truth, on the second night, you will become ready to receive a physical union like that of the holy Patriarchs
    21: And then, on the third night, you will obtain a blessing, so that healthy children may be procreated from you both
    22: And so, the third night having been accomplished, you will receive the virgin with the fear of the Lord, led more by love of children than by physical desire, so that, as the offspring of Abraham, you will then obtain a blessing in children

  Chapter 7.

    1: And so they went to Raguel, and Raguel received them with gladness
    2: And Raguel, gazing upon Tobias, said to Anna his wife, “How much like my cousin is this young man!
    3: And when he had spoken this, he said, “Which of our brethren are you from, young men?
    4: But they said, “We are from the tribe of Naphtali, from the captivity of Nineveh.
    5: And Raguel said to them, “Do you know my brother Tobit?” They said to him, “We know him.
    6: And since he was saying many good things about him, the Angel said to Raguel, “The Tobit about whom you inquire is the father of this young man.
    7: And Raguel threw himself towards him and kissed him with tears and weeping upon his neck, saying, “May a blessing be upon you, my son, because you are the son of a good and most noble man.
    8: And his wife Anna, and their daughter Sarah, were weeping
    9: And so, after they had spoken, Raguel instructed a sheep to be killed, and a feast to be prepared. And when he exhorted them to recline for dinner
    10: Tobias said, “Here, today, I will not eat or drink, unless you first confirm my petition, and promise to give Sarah your daughter to me.
    11: When Raguel heard this word, he became afraid, knowing what had befallen those seven men, who had approached her. And he began to fear, lest it might happen to him also in the same way. And, since he wavered and gave no further response to the petition
    12: the Angel said to him: “Do not be afraid to give her to this one, because this one fears God. He is obliged to be joined to your daughter. Because of this, no other one could have her.
    13: Then Raguel said: “I do not doubt that God has admitted my prayers and tears before his sight
    14: And I believe, therefore, that he has caused you to come to me, so that this one might be joined in marriage to one of her own kindred, according to the law of Moses. And now, do not continue to doubt that I will give her to you.
    15: And taking the right hand of his daughter, he gave it into the right hand of Tobias, saying, “May the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob be with you. And may he join you together in marriage and fulfill his blessing in you.
    16: And taking paper, they made a written record of the marriage
    17: And after this, they feasted, blessing God
    18: And Raguel called his wife Anna to him, and he instructed her to prepare another bedroom
    19: And she brought her daughter Sarah into it, and she was weeping
    20: And she said to her, “Be steadfast in spirit, my daughter. May the Lord of heaven give you gladness in place of the grief that you have had to endure.

  Chapter 8.

    1: In truth, after they had dined, they introduced the young man to her
    2: And so, Tobias, remembering the word of the Angel, took part of the liver from his bag, and he placed it over the live coals
    3: Then the Angel Raphael caught the demon, and bound him in the desert of upper Egypt
    4: Then Tobias exhorted the virgin, and he said to her: “Sarah, get up and let us pray to God this day, and tomorrow, and the following day. For, during these three nights, we are being joined to God. And then, when the third night has passed, we ourselves will be joined together
    5: For certainly, we are the children of the saints, and we must not be joined together in such a manner as the heathens, who are ignorant of God.
    6: And so, rising up together, they both prayed earnestly, at the same time, that health might be given to them
    7: And Tobias said: “Lord, the God of our fathers, may the heavens and the earth bless you, and the sea, and the fountains, and the rivers, and all your creatures that are in them
    8: You formed Adam from the mud of the earth, and you gave Eve to him as a helper
    9: And now, O Lord, you know that I take my sister in conjugal union, not by reason of worldly pleasure, but solely for the love of posterity, in which your name may be blessed forever and ever.
    10: Sarah likewise said, “Be merciful to us, O Lord, be merciful to us. And let us both grow old together in health.
    11: And it happened, about the time of the rooster’s crowing, that Raguel ordered his servants to be summoned, and they went out with him together to dig a grave
    12: For he said, “Lest perhaps, in the same way, it may have happened to him, as it did also to the other seven men who approached her.
    13: And when they had prepared the pit, Raguel returned to his wife, and he said to her
    14: “Send one of your maids, and let her see if he is dead, so that I may bury him before the dawn of day.
    15: And so, she sent one of her maidservants, who entered the bedroom and discovered them safe and unharmed, sleeping both together
    16: And returning, she reported the good news. And they blessed the Lord: Raguel, especially, and his wife Anna
    17: And they said: “We bless you, Lord God of Israel, because it has not happened in the way that we thought it might
    18: For you have acted in your mercy toward us, and you have excluded from us the enemy who pursued us
    19: Moreover, you have had compassion on two only children. Make them, O Lord, able to bless you more fully and to offer you a sacrifice of your praise and of their health, so that all peoples everywhere may know that you alone are God in all the earth.
    20: And immediately Raguel instructed his servants to refill the pit, which they had made, before daylight
    21: And then he told his wife to make ready a feast, and to prepare all the provisions that are necessary for those who undertake a journey
    22: Likewise, he caused two fat cows and four rams to be killed, and a banquet to be prepared for all his neighbors and every one of his friends
    23: And Raguel pleaded with Tobias to delay with him for two weeks
    24: Moreover, of all the things that Raguel possessed, he gave one half part to Tobias, and he made a writing, so that the half that remained should also pass into the ownership of Tobias, after their deaths

End of day 114.