Day 266:

Reading Micah, chapters ['5', '6', '7']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: Now you will be devastated, you daughter of a robber. They have placed a blockade against us, with a rod they will strike the jaw of the judge of Israel
    2: And you, Bethlehem Ephrata, are a little one among the thousands of Judah. From you will go forth he who shall be the ruler in Israel, and his landing place has been set from the beginning, from the days of eternity
    3: Because of this, he will provide for them, even until the time in which she who bears him gives birth. And the remnant of his brothers will be converted to the sons of Israel
    4: And he will stand firm and feed on the strength of the Lord, according to the sublime name of the Lord his God. And they will be converted, for now he will be magnified, even to the ends of the earth
    5: And this man will be our peace, when the Assyrian will come into our land, and when he will trample on our houses; and we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight principal men
    6: And they will graze on the land of Assur with the sword, and the land of Nimrod with its spears; and he will free us from Assur, when he will come into our land, and when he will trample our borders
    7: And there will be a remnant of Jacob in the midst of many peoples, like a dew from the Lord and like drops upon the grass, which awaits no man and does not stand before the sons of men
    8: And there will be a remnant of Jacob within the Gentiles, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the beasts of the forests, and like a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who, when he will pass through and trample down and seize, there is none who can rescue
    9: Your hand will be exalted over your enemies, and all your adversaries will pass away
    10: And it will be in that day, says the Lord: I will take away your horses from your midst, and I will utterly ruin your four-horse chariots
    11: And I will destroy the cities of your land, and I will pull down all your fortifications, and I will take away evil-doing from your hand, and there will be no divinations among you
    12: And I will cause your graven images to perish, and your statues, from your midst. And you will no longer adore the works of your hands
    13: And I will root out your sacred groves from your midst, and I will crush your cities
    14: And I will exact vengeance, in fury and in indignation, among all the nations which have not listened

  Chapter 6.

    1: Listen to what the Lord says: Rise, contend in judgment against the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice
    2: Let the mountains listen to the judgment of the Lord, and the strong foundations of the earth. For the judgment of the Lord is with his people, and he will enter into judgment with Israel
    3: My people, what have I done to you, or how have I assailed you? Respond to me
    4: For I led you out of the land of Egypt, and I freed you from the house of servitude, and I sent before your face Moses, and Aaron, and Miriam
    5: My people, remember, I ask you, what Balak the king of Moab planned, and how Balaam the son of Beor responded to him, from Shittim even to Gilgal, so that you may know the justice of the Lord
    6: What worthy thing might I offer to the Lord, as I bend the knee before God on high? How could I offer holocausts to him, and one year-old calves
    7: Would the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with many thousands of fat he-goats? How could I give up my firstborn because of my evil deed, the fruit of my womb because of the sin of my soul
    8: I will reveal to you, O man, what is good, and what the Lord requires from you, and how to act with judgment, and to love mercy, and to walk carefully with your God
    9: The voice of the Lord cries out to the city, “Listen, you tribes,” and who will confirm it? And salvation will be for those who fear your name
    10: Nevertheless, there is a fire in the house of the impious, the treasury of iniquity, and a small measure, filled with wrath
    11: Shall I justify unfaithful balances, and the deceitful weighing of a small bag
    12: By this, her wealthy have been filled with iniquity, and her inhabitants have spoken lies, and their tongue was deceitful in their mouth
    13: And I, therefore, began to strike you with perdition because of your sins
    14: You will consume and not be satisfied, and your humiliation will be in your midst. And you will take hold, and not save, and those whom you will save, I will deliver to the sword
    15: You will sow, and not reap. You will tread the olives, and not be anointed with oil, and crush the grapes, and not drink the wine
    16: For you have kept the precepts of Omri, and all the works of the house of Ahab. And you have walked according their wills, so that I should give you over to perdition and its hissing inhabitants, and you would carry the disgrace of my people

  Chapter 7.

    1: Woe to me, for I have become just like one who gleans the clusters of the vintage in autumn. There is no cluster of grapes to consume; my soul desired figs out of season
    2: The holy ones pass away from the land, and there is no one righteous among men. All wait in ambush for blood; a man hunts his brother to death
    3: The evil of their hands, they call good. The leader is demanding, and the judge is yielding, and the great is speaking the desire of his soul, and they have confused it
    4: Whoever is best among them is like a thorny plant, and he who is righteous is like a thorny hedge. The day of your inspection, your visitation, arrives. Now will be their ruination
    5: Do not be willing to believe a friend. And do not be willing to confide in a commander. From her, who sleeps in your bosom, keep the doors of your mouth closed
    6: For the son acts with contempt for the father, and the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man’s enemies are those of his own household
    7: But I will look towards the Lord. I will wait for God, my Savior. My God will hear me
    8: You, my enemy, should not rejoice over me because I have fallen. I will rise up, when I sit in darkness. The Lord is my light
    9: I will carry the wrath of the Lord, because I have sinned against him, until he may judge my case and execute judgment for me. He will lead me into the light. I will behold his justice
    10: And my enemy will look, and she will be covered with confusion, she who says to me, “Where is the Lord your God?” My eyes will look upon her. Now she will be trampled under foot like the mud of the streets
    11: The day that your walls will be rebuilt, in that day the law will be far away
    12: In that day also, they will come towards you even from Assur, and even to the fortified cities, and from the fortified cities even to the river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain
    13: And the land will be in desolation, because of its inhabitants and because of the fruit of their intentions
    14: With your rod, pasture your people, the flock of your inheritance, living alone in the narrow forest, in the midst of Carmel. They will graze in Bashan and Gilead, as in the ancient days
    15: As in the days of your departure from the land of Egypt, I will reveal miracles to him
    16: The nations will look, and they will be confounded at the strength of them all. They will place hand over mouth; their ears will be deaf
    17: They will lick the dust like serpents, and, like the creeping things of the earth, they will be disturbed in their houses. They will dread the Lord our God, and they will fear you
    18: What God is like you, who takes away iniquity and passes over the sin of the remnant of your inheritance? No longer will he send forth his fury, because he is willing to be merciful
    19: He will turn back and have mercy on us. He will put away our iniquities, and he will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea
    20: You will give the truth to Jacob, mercy to Abraham, which you swore to our fathers from the ancient days

End of day 266.