Day 136:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: Blessed is the man who has not followed the counsel of the impious, and has not remained in the way of sinners, and has not sat in the chair of pestilence
    2: But his will is with the law of the Lord, and he will meditate on his law, day and night
    3: And he will be like a tree that has been planted beside running waters, which will provide its fruit in its time, and its leaf will not fall away, and all things whatsoever that he does will prosper
    4: Not so the impious, not so. For they are like the dust that the wind casts along the face of the earth
    5: Therefore, the impious will not prevail again in judgment, nor sinners in the council of the just
    6: For the Lord knows the way of the just. And the path of the impious will pass away

  Chapter 2.

    1: Why have the Gentiles been seething, and why have the people been pondering nonsense
    2: The kings of the earth have stood up, and the leaders have joined together as one, against the Lord and against his Christ
    3: “Let us shatter their chains and cast their yoke away from us.
    4: He who dwells in heaven will ridicule them, and the Lord will mock them
    5: Then will he speak to them in his anger and trouble them with his fury
    6: Yet I have been appointed king by him over Zion, his holy mountain, preaching his precepts
    7: The Lord has said to me: You are my son, this day have I begotten you
    8: Ask of me and I will give to you: the Gentiles for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession
    9: You will rule them with an iron rod, and you will shatter them like a potter’s vessel
    10: And now, O kings, understand. Receive instruction, you who judge the earth
    11: Serve the Lord in fear, and exult in him with trembling
    12: Embrace discipline, lest at any time the Lord might become angry, and you would perish from the way of the just
    13: Though his wrath can flare up in a short time, blessed are all those who trust in him

  Chapter 3.

    1: A Psalm of David. When he fled from the face of his son, Absalom
    2: Lord, why have those who trouble me been multiplied? Many rise up against me
    3: Many say to my soul, “There is no salvation for him in his God.
    4: But you, Lord, are my supporter, my glory, and the one who raises up my head
    5: I have cried out to the Lord with my voice, and he has heard me from his holy mountain
    6: I have slept, and I have been stupefied. But I awakened because the Lord has taken me up
    7: I will not fear the thousands of people surrounding me. Rise up, Lord. Save me, my God
    8: For you have struck all those who oppose me without cause. You have broken the teeth of sinners
    9: Salvation is of the Lord, and your blessing is upon your people

  Chapter 4.

    1: In parts according to verses. A Psalm of David
    2: When I called upon him, the God of my justice heeded me. In tribulation, you have enlarged me. Have mercy on me, and heed my prayer
    3: Sons of men, how long will you be dull in heart, so that whatever you love is in vain, and whatever you seek is false
    4: And know this: the Lord has made wondrous his holy one. The Lord will heed me when I cry out to him
    5: Be angry, and do not be willing to sin. The things that you say in your hearts: be sorry for them on your beds
    6: Offer the sacrifice of justice, and hope in the Lord. Many say, “Who reveals to us what is good?
    7: The light of your countenance, Lord, has been sealed upon us. You have given joy to my heart
    8: By the fruit of their grain, wine, and oil, they have been multiplied
    9: In peace itself, I will sleep and I will rest
    10: For you, O Lord, have established me singularly in hope

End of day 136.