Day 47:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['29', '30', '31', '32']:

  Chapter 29.

    1: These are the words of the covenant which the Lord instructed Moses to form with the sons of Israel in the land of Moab, beside that covenant which he struck with them at Horeb
    2: And Moses called all of Israel, and he said to them: “You have seen all the things that the Lord has done in your sight in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to his entire land
    3: the great trials, which your eyes have seen, those immense signs and wonders
    4: But the Lord has not given you an understanding heart, and seeing eyes, and ears that are able to hear, even to this present day
    5: He led you for forty years through the desert. Your garments have not been worn out, nor have the shoes on your feet been consumed by age
    6: You did not eat bread, nor did you drink wine or liquor, so that you would know that I am the Lord your God
    7: And you arrived at this place. And Sihon, the king of Heshbon, and Og, the king of Bashan, went out to meet us in battle. And we struck them down
    8: And we took their land and delivered it as a possession to Ruben and to Gad, and to half of the tribe of Manasseh
    9: Therefore, keep the words of this covenant, and fulfill them, so that you may understand all that you are doing
    10: Today, you all stand in the sight of the Lord your God: your leaders, and tribes, and those greater by birth, and teachers, all the people of Israel
    11: your children and wives, and the new arrival who dwells with you in the camp, aside from those who cut wood, and those who bring water
    12: so that you may cross into the covenant of the Lord your God, and into the oath which the Lord your God strikes with you today
    13: So shall he raise you up as a people to himself, and so shall he be your God, just as he has spoken to you, and just as he swore to your fathers: Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
    14: And I am not forming this covenant and confirm these oaths with you alone
    15: but with all those who are present as well as those who are absent
    16: For you know how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we passed through the midst of nations. And when passing through them
    17: you saw their abominations and filth, that is, their idols of wood and of stone, of silver and of gold, which they worshipped
    18: so that there would not be among you man or woman, family or tribe, whose heart has been turned away this day from the Lord our God, so as to go and serve the gods of those nations. For then there would be among you a root springing forth gall and bitterness
    19: And if he were to hear the words of this oath, he would bless himself in his own heart saying: ‘There will be peace for me, and I will walk in the depravity of my heart.’ And so, the one who is inebriated would consume the one who is thirsty
    20: But the Lord would not ignore him. Instead, at that time, his fury and zealousness would be very greatly enflamed against that man, and all the curses which have been written in this volume would settle upon him. And the Lord would abolish his name from under heaven
    21: and consume him unto perdition out of all the tribes of Israel, according to the curses which are contained in the book of this law and in the covenant
    22: And the subsequent generation would speak out, along with the sons who will be born afterward. And the sojourners, who will arrive from far away, will see the plagues of that land and the infirmities with which the Lord will have afflicted it
    23: having burned it with sulphur and molten salt, so that it can no longer be sown. And certainly no greenery would spring up, as in the example of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which the Lord overturned with his wrath and fury
    24: And so, all the nations would say: ‘Why has the Lord acted this way toward this land? What is this immense wrath of his fury?
    25: And they will respond: ‘Because they abandoned the covenant of the Lord, which he formed with their fathers, when he led them away from the land of Egypt
    26: And they have served foreign gods, and adored them, though they did not know them, and though they had not been allotted to them
    27: For this reason, the fury of the Lord was enraged against this land, so as to lead over it all the curses which have been written in this volume
    28: And he has cast them out of their own land, with anger and fury, and with a very great indignation, and he has thrown them into a strange land, just as has been proven this day.
    29: These hidden things of the Lord our God have been revealed to us and to our sons in perpetuity, so that we may accomplish all the words of this law.

  Chapter 30.

    1: “Now when all these things will have fallen over you, the blessing or the curse that I have set forth in your sight, and you will have been led to repentance in your heart among all the nations to which the Lord your God will have dispersed you
    2: and when you will have returned to him, so as to obey his commandments, just as I have instructed you this day, with your sons, with your whole heart and with your whole soul
    3: then the Lord your God will lead you away from your captivity, and he will take pity on you, and he will gather you again from all the nations to which he had dispersed you before
    4: Even if you will have been scattered as far as the poles of the heavens, the Lord your God will retrieve you from there
    5: And he will take you up and lead you into the land which your fathers had possessed, and you shall obtain it. And in blessing you, he will make you greater in number than your fathers ever were
    6: The Lord your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your offspring, so that you may love the Lord your God with your entire heart and with your entire soul, so that you may be able to live
    7: And he will turn all these curses upon your enemies, and upon those who hate and persecute you
    8: But you shall return, and you shall listen to the voice of the Lord your God. And you shall carry out all the commandments which I am entrusting to you this day
    9: And the Lord your God will cause you to abound in all the works of your hands, in the progeny of your womb, and in the fruit of your cattle, in the fertility of your land, and with an abundance of all things. For the Lord will return, so that he may rejoice over you in all good things, just as he rejoiced in your fathers
    10: but only if you will listen to the voice of the Lord your God, and keep his precepts and ceremonies, which have been written in this law, and only if you return to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul
    11: This commandment, which I entrust to you today, is not high above you, nor has it been placed far away
    12: Nor is it in heaven, so that you would be able to say, ‘Which of us can ascend to heaven, so as to carry it back to us, and so that we may hear it and fulfill it in deed?
    13: Nor is it beyond the sea, so that you would excuse yourself by saying, ‘Which of us is able to cross the sea, and to carry it back to us, so that we may be able to hear and to do what has been instructed?
    14: Instead, the word is near to you, in your mouth and in your heart, so that you may do it
    15: Consider what I have set forth in your sight this day, life and good, or, on the opposite side, death and evil
    16: so that you may love the Lord your God, and walk in his ways, and keep his commandments and ceremonies and judgments, and so that you may live, and he may multiply you and bless you in the land, which you shall enter in order to possess
    17: But if your heart will have been turned aside, so that you are not willing to listen, and, having been deceived by error, you adore strange gods and serve them
    18: then I predict to you this day that you will perish, and you will remain for only a short time in the land, for which you shall cross the Jordan, and which you shall enter in order to possess
    19: I call heaven and earth as witnesses this day, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore, choose life, so that both you and your offspring may live
    20: and so that you may love the Lord your God, and obey his voice, and cling to him, (for he is your life and the length of your days) and so that you may live in the land, about which the Lord swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that he would give it to them.

  Chapter 31.

    1: And so, Moses went out, and he spoke all these words to all of Israel
    2: And he said to them: “Today, I am one hundred and twenty years old. I am no longer able to go out and return, especially since the Lord has also said to me, ‘You shall not cross this Jordan.
    3: Therefore, the Lord your God will go across before you. He himself will abolish all these nations in your sight, and you shall possess them. And this man Joshua shall go across before you, just as the Lord has spoken
    4: And the Lord will do to them just as he did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, and he will wipe them away
    5: Therefore, when the Lord will have delivered these to you also, you shall act similarly toward them, just as I have instructed you
    6: Act manfully and be strengthened. Do not be afraid, and do not dread at the sight of them. For the Lord your God himself is your commander, and he will neither dismiss nor abandon you.
    7: And Moses called Joshua, and, before all of Israel, he said to him: ‘Be strong and valiant. For you shall lead this people into the land which the Lord swore that he would give to their fathers, and you shall divide it by lot
    8: And the Lord, who is your commander, will himself be with you. He will neither renounce nor abandon you. Do not be afraid, and do not dread.
    9: And so, Moses wrote this law, and he handed it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and to all the elders of Israel
    10: And he instructed them, saying: “After seven years, in the year of remission, at the solemnity of the Feast of Tabernacles
    11: when all of Israel has convened in order to appear in the sight of the Lord your God, in the place which the Lord will choose, you shall read the words of this law before all of Israel, in their hearing
    12: And when the people have gathered together, men as well as women and little children, and the new arrivals who are within your gates, they shall listen so that they may learn, and may fear the Lord your God, and may keep and fulfill all the words of this law
    13: and also so that their sons, who are now ignorant, may be able to listen, and may fear the Lord their God all the days that they live in the land to which you will travel, crossing the Jordan in order to obtain it.
    14: And the Lord said to Moses: “Behold, the days of your death draw near. Call Joshua, and stand in the tabernacle of the testimony, so that I may instruct him.” Therefore, Moses and Joshua went and stood in the tabernacle of the testimony
    15: And the Lord appeared there, in a pillar of cloud, which stood at the entrance of the tabernacle
    16: And the Lord said to Moses: “Behold, you shall sleep with your fathers, and this people will rise up and will fornicate after foreign gods, in the land which they will enter so that they may live in it. In that place, they will forsake me, and they will make void the covenant that I have formed with them
    17: And my fury will be enraged against them in that day. And I will abandon them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured. Every evil and affliction will find them, so much so that they will say in that day: ‘Truly, it is because God is not with me that these evils have found me.
    18: But I will hide myself, and I will conceal my face in that day, because of all the evils that they have done, because they have followed strange gods
    19: And so, write this canticle now, and teach it to the sons of Israel, so that they may retain it in memory, and may chant it by mouth, and so that this verse may be a testimony to me among the sons of Israel
    20: For I will lead them into the land, about which I swore to their fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey. And when they have eaten, and have been satiated and fattened, they will turn aside to foreign gods, and they will serve them. And they will disparage me, and they will nullify my covenant
    21: And after many evils and afflictions have overwhelmed them, this canticle will answer them as a testimony; it shall never pass into oblivion, away from the mouths of their offspring. For I know their thoughts and what they are about to do today, even before I lead them into the land which I have promised to them.
    22: Therefore, Moses wrote the canticle, and he taught it to the sons of Israel
    23: And the Lord instructed Joshua, the son of Nun, and he said: “Be strong and valiant. For you shall lead the sons of Israel into the land which I have promised, and I will be with you.
    24: Therefore, after Moses had written the words of this law in a volume, and had finished it
    25: he instructed the Levites, who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, saying
    26: “Take this book, and place it inside the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, so that it may be there as a testimony against you
    27: For I know your contentiousness and your very stiff neck. Even while I am still living and entering with you, you have always acted with contention against the Lord. How much more so when I will be dead
    28: Gather to me all those greater by birth throughout your tribes, as well as your teachers, and I will speak these words in their hearing, and I will call heaven and earth as witnesses against them
    29: For I know that, after my death, you will act with iniquity, and you will quickly depart from the way that I have instructed to you. And so, evils will meet you in the end time, when you will have done evil in the sight of the Lord so as to provoke him through the works of your hands.
    30: Thus did Moses speak, in the hearing of the entire assembly of Israel, the words of this canticle, and he completed it to its very end

  Chapter 32.

    1: “Listen, O heavens, to what I am saying. Let the earth hear the words of my mouth
    2: Let my doctrine accumulate like the rain. Let my eloquence form like the dew, like a mist upon the plants, and like water droplets upon the grass
    3: For I will invoke the name of the Lord. Acknowledge the magnificence of our God
    4: The works of God are perfect, and all his ways are judgments. God is faithful and without any iniquity. He is just and upright
    5: They have sinned against him, and in their filth they are not his sons. They are a depraved and perverse generation
    6: How can this be the return you would offer to the Lord, O foolish and senseless people? Is he himself not your Father, who has possessed you, and made you, and created you
    7: Remember the days of antiquity. Consider each generation. Question your father, and he will declare it to you. Question your elders, and they will tell it to you
    8: When the Most High divided the nations, when he separated the sons of Adam, he appointed the limits of the peoples according to the number of the sons of Israel
    9: But the Lord’s portion is his people: Jacob, the lot of his inheritance
    10: He discovered him in a desert land, in a place of horror and a vast wilderness. He led him around and taught him, and he guarded him like the pupil of his eye
    11: just as an eagle encourages its young to fly, and, flying above them, stretches out its wings, and takes them up, and carries them on its shoulders
    12: The Lord alone was his leader, and there was no strange god with him
    13: He stood him upon an exalted land, so that he might eat the fruits of the fields, so that he might eat honey from the rock, and oil from the hardest stone
    14: butter from the herd, and milk from the sheep, with fat from the lambs, and with rams and goats from the sons of Bashan, with the kernel of the wheat, and so that he might drink the undiluted blood of the grape
    15: The beloved grew fat, and he kicked. Having grown fat and thick and wide, he abandoned God, his Maker, and he withdrew from God, his Savior
    16: They provoked him with strange gods, and they stirred him to anger by their abominations
    17: They immolated to demons and not to God, to gods whom they did not know, who were new and recent arrivals, whom their fathers did not worship
    18: You have forsaken the God who conceived you, and you have forgotten the Lord who created you
    19: The Lord saw, and he was stirred to anger. For his own sons and daughters provoked him
    20: And he said: ‘I will hide my face from them, and I will consider their very end. For this is a perverse generation, and they are unfaithful sons
    21: They have provoked me with that which was not God, and they have angered me with their emptiness. And so, I will provoke them with that which is not a people, and I will anger them with a foolish nation
    22: A fire has been kindled in my fury, and it will burn even to the deepest Hell, and it will devour the earth with its produce, and it will burn the foundations of the mountains
    23: I will heap evils upon them, and I will expend my arrows among them
    24: They will be consumed by famine, and birds with a very bitter bite will devour them. I will send forth the teeth of wild beasts among them, along with the fury of creatures that scurry across the ground, and of serpents
    25: Outside, the sword will devastate them; and inside, there will be dread, as much for the young man as for the maiden, and as much for the newborn as for the old man
    26: I said: Where are they? I will cause their memory to cease from among men
    27: But because of the wrath of the enemies, I have delayed it. Otherwise, perhaps their enemies would be arrogant and would say: “Our exalted hand, and not the Lord, has done all these things.
    28: They are a nation without counsel and without prudence
    29: I wish that they would be wise and understanding, and would provide for the very end.
    30: How is it that one pursues a thousand, and two chases ten thousand? Is it not because their God has sold them, and because the Lord has enclosed them
    31: For our God is not like their gods. And our enemies are judges
    32: Their vines are of the vines of Sodom, but from the suburbs of Gomorrah. Their grapes are the grapes of gall, and their grape clusters are most bitter
    33: Their wine is the gall of snakes, and it is the incurable venom of asps
    34: ‘Have not these things been stored up with me, and sealed up amid my treasures
    35: Vengeance is mine, and I will repay them in due time, so that their foot may slip and fall. The day of perdition is near, and the time rushes to appear.
    36: The Lord will judge his people, and he will take pity on his servants. He will see that their hand has been weakened, and that those who have been enclosed have likewise failed, and that those who have been left behind have been consumed
    37: And he shall say: ‘Where are their gods, in whom they had confidence
    38: They ate the fat of their victims, and they drank the wine of their libations. So let these rise up, and bring relief to you, and protect you in your distress
    39: See that I am alone, and there is no other god beside me. I will kill, and I will cause to live. I will strike, and I will heal. And there is no one who is able to rescue from my hand
    40: I will lift up my hand to heaven, and I will say: I live in eternity
    41: When I sharpen my sword like lightning, and my hand takes hold of judgment, then I will render vengeance to my enemies, and I will repay those who hate me
    42: I will inebriate my arrows with blood, and my sword will devour flesh: from the blood of the slain and from the captive, from the exposed head of the enemies.
    43: You nations, praise his people! For he will avenge the blood of his servants. And he will distribute vengeance to their enemies. And he will be merciful to the land of his people.
    44: Therefore, Moses went and spoke all the words of this canticle to the ears of the people, both he and Joshua, the son of Nun
    45: And he completed all these words, speaking to all of Israel
    46: And he said to them: “Set your hearts upon all the words which I am testifying to you this day. So shall you command your sons, to keep, and to do, and to fulfill all the things that have been written in this law
    47: For these things have not been entrusted to you to no purpose, but so that each one would live by them, and so that, in doing these, you may continue for a long time in the land, which you will enter upon crossing the Jordan in order to possess it.
    48: And the Lord spoke to Moses on the same day, saying
    49: “Ascend this mountain, Abarim, (that is, of crossings) onto Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, opposite Jericho, and look upon the land of Canaan, which I will deliver to the sons of Israel to obtain it. And you shall die upon the mountain
    50: After climbing it, you will be joined to your people, just as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor, and was placed with his people
    51: For you trespassed against me in the midst of the sons of Israel, at the Waters of Contradiction, in Kadesh, in the desert of Sin. And you did not sanctify me among the sons of Israel
    52: You shall see the land opposite you, which I will give to the sons of Israel, but you shall not enter into it.

End of day 47.