Day 215:

Reading Isaiah, chapters ['41', '42', '43', '44']:

  Chapter 41.

    1: Let the islands be silent before me, and let the nations take new strength. Let them draw near, and then speak. Let us apply for judgment together
    2: Who has raised up a just man from the east, and has called him to follow him? He will place the nations under his gaze, and he will rule over kings. He will cause them to be like dust before his sword, like chaff driven by the wind before his bow
    3: He will pursue them. He will pass by in peace. No trace will appear after his feet
    4: Who has worked and accomplished these things, calling to the generations from the beginning? “It is I, the Lord! I am the first and the last.
    5: The islands saw it and were afraid. The ends of the earth were stupefied. They drew near and arrived
    6: Each one will help his neighbor and will say to his brother, “Be strengthened.
    7: The coppersmith striking with the mallet encouraged him who was forging at that time, saying, “It is ready for soldering.” And he strengthened it with nails, so that it would not be moved
    8: But you, O Israel, are my servant, O Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of my friend Abraham
    9: For his sake, I have taken you from the ends of the earth, and I have called you from its distant places. And I said to you: “You are my servant. I have chosen you, and I have not cast you aside.
    10: Do not be afraid, for I am with you. Do not turn away, for I am your God. I have strengthened you, and I have assisted you, and the right hand of my just one has upheld you
    11: Behold, all who fight against you shall be confounded and ashamed. They will be as if they did not exist, and the men who contradict you will perish
    12: You will seek them, and you will not find them. The men who rebel against you will be as if they did not exist. And the men who make war against you will be like something that has been consumed
    13: For I am the Lord your God. I take you by your hand, and I say to you: Do not be afraid. I have helped you
    14: Fear not, O worm of Jacob, you who are dead within Israel. I have helped you, says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel
    15: I have established you like a new threshing cart, having serrated blades. You will thresh the mountains and crush them. And you will turn the hills into chaff
    16: You will winnow them, and the wind will blow them away, and the whirlwind will scatter them. And you shall exult in the Lord; you shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel
    17: The indigent and the poor are seeking water, but there is none. Their tongue has been dried up by thirst. I, the Lord, will heed them. I, the God of Israel, will not abandon them
    18: I will open rivers in the high hills, and fountains in the midst of the plains. I will turn the desert into pools of water, and the impassable land into streams of water
    19: I will plant the cedar in a deserted place, with the thorn, and the myrtle, and the olive tree. In the desert, I will plant the pine, and the elm, and the box tree together
    20: so that they may see and know, acknowledge and understand, together, that the hand of the Lord has accomplished this, and that the Holy One of Israel has created it
    21: Bring your case forward, says the Lord. Bring it here, if you have anything to allege, says the King of Jacob
    22: Let them approach and announce to us the things that will occur. Announce to us the things that were before. And we will apply our heart to them, and we will know their end. And so, reveal to us the things that will occur
    23: Announce the things that will occur in the future, and we will know that you are gods. Likewise, accomplish good or evil, if you are able, and let us speak of it and see it together
    24: Behold, you exist out of nothing, and your work is from what does not exist; he who has chosen you is an abomination
    25: I have raised up one from the north, and he will arrive from the rising of the sun. He will call upon my name, and he will reduce magistrates to mud, like a potter working with clay
    26: Who has announced this from its rising, so that we may know it, or from its beginning, so that we may say, “You are just.” There is no one who either announces, or predicts, or hears your words
    27: The first one will say to Zion: “Behold, they are here,” and to Jerusalem, “I will present an evangelist.
    28: And I saw, and there was no one among any of them to consult, or who, when I asked, could answer a word
    29: Behold, they are all unjust, and their works are empty. Their idols are wind and emptiness

  Chapter 42.

    1: Behold my servant, I will uphold him, my elect, with him my soul is well-pleased. I have sent my Spirit upon him. He will offer judgment to the nations
    2: He will not cry out, and he will not show favoritism to anyone; neither will his voice be heard abroad
    3: The bruised reed he will not break, and the smoldering wick he will not extinguish. He will lead forth judgment unto truth
    4: He will not be saddened or troubled, until he establishes judgment on earth. And the islands will await his law
    5: Thus says the Lord God, who created the heavens and expanded it, who formed the earth and all that springs from it, who gives breath to the people in it, and spirit to those walking on it
    6: I, the Lord, have called you in justice, and I have taken your hand and preserved you. And I have presented you as a covenant of the people, as a light to the Gentiles
    7: so that you may open the eyes of the blind, and lead out the prisoner from confinement and those sitting in darkness from the house of incarceration
    8: I am the Lord; this is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven things
    9: The things that were first, behold, they have arrived. And I also announce what is new. Before these things arise, I will cause you to hear about them
    10: Sing to the Lord a new canticle, sing his praise from the ends of the earth, you who descend into the sea and all its fullness, the islands and their inhabitants
    11: Let the desert and its cities be lifted up. Kedar will dwell in houses. O inhabitants of the rock, give praise! They will cry out from the top of the mountains
    12: They will give glory to the Lord, and they will announce his praise to the islands
    13: The Lord will go forth like a strong man; like a man of battle, he will stir up zeal. He will shout and cry out. He will prevail against his enemies
    14: I have always been quiet; I have been silent; I have been patient. I will speak like a woman giving birth. I will destroy and consume, all at once
    15: I will desolate the mountains and the hills, and I will wither all their grass. And I will turn rivers into islands, and I will dry up the pools of water
    16: And I will lead the blind along a way which they do not know. And I will cause them to walk along paths with which they were unfamiliar. I will turn darkness into light before them, and crooked into straight. These things I have done for them. For I have not abandoned them
    17: They have been converted again. Let those who trust in graven idols be greatly confounded, for they say to a molten thing, “You are our god.
    18: You who are deaf, hear! You who are blind, turn your gaze and see
    19: Who is blind, except my servant? Who is deaf, except the one to whom I have sent my messengers? Who is blind, except the one who has been sold? And who is blind, except the servant of the Lord
    20: You who see many things, will you not keep them? You who have open ears, will you not listen
    21: And the Lord was willing to sanctify him, and to magnify the law, and to exalt him
    22: But this same people has robbed and laid waste. All their youth are a snare, and they have been hidden in houses of confinement. They have become victims; there is no one who may rescue them. They have been plundered; there is no one who may say, “Restore.
    23: Who is there among you who will hear this, who will listen closely and heed this in the future
    24: Who has handed over Jacob into plunder, and Israel into devastation? It is not the Lord himself, against whom we have sinned? And they were not willing to walk in his ways, and they have not listened to his law
    25: And so, he poured out over him the indignation of his fury and a strong battle. And he burned him all around, and he did not realize it. And he set him on fire, and he did not understand it

  Chapter 43.

    1: And now thus says the Lord who created you, O Jacob, and who formed you, O Israel: Do not be afraid. For I have redeemed you, and I have called you by your name. You are mine
    2: When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and the rivers will not cover you. When you walk through fire, you will not be burned, and the flames will not scorch you
    3: For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Saviour. I have presented Egypt as your atonement, Ethiopia and Seba on your behalf
    4: Since then, you have become honorable in my eyes, and glorious. I have loved you, and I will present men on behalf of you, and people on behalf of your life
    5: Fear not, for I am with you. I will lead your offspring from the East, and I will gather you from the West
    6: I will say to the North, “Release him,” and to the South, “Do not turn him away.” Bring my sons from far away, and my daughters from the ends of the earth
    7: And each one who calls upon my name, I have created for my glory. I have formed him, and I have made him
    8: Lead forth the people who are blind and have eyes, who are deaf and have ears
    9: All the nations have been assembled together, and the tribes have been collected. Who among you will announce this, and who will cause us to listen to the things that are first? Let them present their witnesses. Let them act justly, and listen, and say: “It is true.
    10: You are my witnesses, says the Lord, and you are my servant, whom I have chosen, so that you may know, and may believe in me, and so that you may understand that I am the same. Before me, there was no god formed, and after me there will be none
    11: I am. I am the Lord. And there is no savior apart from me
    12: I have announced, and I have saved. I have caused it to be heard. And there was no stranger among you. You are my witnesses, says the Lord, and I am God
    13: And from the beginning, I am the same. And there is no one who can rescue from my hand. I act, and who can turn it aside
    14: Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake, I sent to Babylon, and tore down all their bars, with the Chaldeans who glory in their ships
    15: I am the Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King
    16: Thus says the Lord, who gave you a way through the sea and a path through the torrent of waters
    17: who led out the chariot and the horse, the column of robust troops. They went to sleep together, and they will not arise. They have been crushed like flax, and they have been extinguished
    18: You need not call to mind the past, nor consider the things of antiquity
    19: Behold, I am accomplishing new things. And presently, they will spring forth. With certainty, you will know them. I will make a way in the desert, and rivers in an impassible place
    20: The wild beasts of the field will glorify me, with the serpents and the ostriches. For I have brought waters to the desert, rivers to inaccessible places, in order to give drink to my people, to my elect
    21: This is the people whom I have formed for myself. They will speak my praise
    22: But you have not called upon me, O Jacob, nor have you struggled for me, O Israel
    23: You have not offered me the ram of your holocaust, and you have not glorified me with your victims. I have not burdened you with oblations, nor have I wearied you with incense
    24: You have bought me no sweet cane with money, and you have not inebriated me with the fat of your victims. Yet truly, you have burdened me with your sins; you have wearied me with your iniquities
    25: I am. I am the very One who wipes away your iniquities for my own sake. And I will not remember your sins
    26: Call me to mind, and let us go to judgment together. If you have anything to justify yourself, explain it
    27: Your first father sinned, and your interpreters have betrayed me
    28: And so, I have defiled the holy leaders. I have handed over Jacob to slaughter, and Israel to calumny

  Chapter 44.

    1: And now, listen, Jacob, my servant, and Israel, whom I have chosen
    2: Thus says the Lord, who made and formed you, your Helper from the womb: Do not be afraid, Jacob, my servant and my most righteous, whom I have chosen
    3: For I will pour out waters upon the thirsty ground, and rivers upon the dry land. I will pour out my Spirit upon your offspring, and my benediction upon your stock
    4: And they will spring up among the plants, like willows beside running waters
    5: This one will say, “I am the Lord’s,” and that one will call himself by the name of Jacob, and yet another will write with his hand, “For the Lord,” and he will take the name Israel
    6: Thus says the Lord, the King and Redeemer of Israel, the Lord of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last, and there is no God apart from me
    7: Who is like me? Let him call out and announce it. And let him explain to me the order of things, since it is I who appointed the ancient people. The things of the near and the distant future, let him announce them
    8: Do not be afraid, and do not be disturbed. From the time when I caused you to listen, I also announced it. You are my witnesses. Is there another God beside me, also a Maker, whom I have not known
    9: All of those who create idols are nothing, and their most beloved things will not benefit them. These are their witnesses, for they do not see, and they do not understand, so that they might be confounded
    10: Who has formed a god or cast a molten image, which is useful for nothing
    11: Behold, all those who partake in this will be confounded. For these makers are men. They will all assemble together. They will stand and be terrified. And they will be confounded together
    12: The maker of iron has wrought with his file. With coals and hammers, he has formed it, and he has wrought with the strength of his arm. He will hunger and grow faint. He will not drink water, and he will become weary
    13: The maker of wood has extended his ruler. He has formed it with a plane. He has made it with corners, and he has smoothed its curves. And he has made the image of a man, a seemingly beautiful man, dwelling in a house
    14: He has cut down cedars; he has taken the evergreen oak, and the oak that stood among the trees of the forest. He has planted the pine tree, which the rain has nourished
    15: And it is used by men for fuel. He took from it and warmed himself. And he set it on fire and baked bread. But from the remainder, he made a god, and he adored it. He made an idol, and he bowed down before it
    16: Part of it, he burned with fire, and with part of it, he cooked meat; he boiled food and was filled. And he was warmed, and so he said: “Ah, I am warm. I have gazed at the fire.
    17: But from its remainder, he made a god and a graven image for himself. He bowed down before it, and he adored it, and he prayed to it, saying: “Free me! For you are my god.
    18: They have neither known nor understood. For their eyes are obscured, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart
    19: They do not consider in their mind, nor do they know, nor do they think to say: “I have burned part of it in the fire, and I have baked bread upon its coals. I have cooked flesh and I have eaten. And from its remainder, should I make an idol? Should I fall prostrate before the trunk of a tree?
    20: Part of it is ashes. His foolish heart adores it. And he will not liberate his soul, and he will not say, “Perhaps there is a lie in my right hand.
    21: Remember these things, O Jacob, O Israel. For you are my servant. I have formed you. You are my servant, Israel. Do not forget me
    22: I have wiped away your iniquities like a cloud, and your sins like a mist. Return to me, because I have redeemed you
    23: Give praise, O heavens! For the Lord has shown mercy. Shout with joy, O ends of the earth! Let the mountains resound with praise, with the forest and all its trees. For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and Israel will be glorified
    24: Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, and your Maker from the womb: I am the Lord, who makes all things, who alone extends the heavens, who makes the earth firm. And there is no one with me
    25: I make the signs of the diviners useless, and I turn the seers to madness. I turn the wise backwards, and make their knowledge into foolishness
    26: I lift up the word of my servant, and I fulfill the counsel of my messengers. I say to Jerusalem, “You shall be inhabited,” and to the cities of Judah, “You shall be rebuilt,” and I will lift up its deserts
    27: I say to the depths, “Be desolate,” and, “I will dry up your rivers.
    28: I say to Cyrus, “You are my shepherd, and you will accomplish all that I will.” I say to Jerusalem, “You shall be built,” and to the Temple, “Your foundations shall be laid.

End of day 215.