Day 5:

Reading Genesis, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: In truth, after he began to be ninety-nine years of age, the Lord appeared to him. And he said to him: “I am the Almighty God. Walk in my sight and become complete
    2: And I will set my covenant between me and you. And I will multiply you very exceedingly.
    3: Abram fell prone on his face
    4: And God said to him: “I AM, and my covenant is with you, and you will be the father of many nations
    5: No longer will your name be called Abram. But you will be called Abraham, for I have established you as the father of many nations
    6: And I will cause you to increase very greatly, and I will set you among the nations, and kings will come forth from you
    7: And I will establish my covenant between me and you, and with your offspring after you in their generations, by a perpetual covenant: to be God to you and to your offspring after you
    8: And I will give to you and to your offspring, the land of your sojourn, all the land of Canaan, as an eternal possession, and I will be their God.
    9: Again God said to Abraham: “And you therefore shall keep my covenant, and your offspring after you in their generations
    10: This is my covenant, which you shall observe, between me and you, and your offspring after you: All the males among you shall be circumcised
    11: And you shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, so that it may be a sign of the covenant between me and you
    12: An infant of eight days will be circumcised among you, every male in your generations. So also servants born to you, as well as those bought, shall be circumcised, even those who are not of your stock
    13: And my covenant shall be with your flesh as an eternal covenant
    14: The male, the flesh of whose foreskin will not be circumcised, that soul shall be eliminated from his people. For he has made my covenant void.
    15: God said also to Abraham: “Your wife Sarai, you shall not call Sarai, but Sarah
    16: And I will bless her, and from her I will give you a son, whom I will bless, and he will be among the nations, and the kings of the peoples will rise from him.
    17: Abraham fell on his face, and he laughed, saying in his heart: “Do you think a son can be born to a one hundred year old man? And will Sarah give birth at the age of ninety?
    18: And he said to God, “If only Ishmael would live in your sight.
    19: And God said to Abraham: “Your wife Sarah shall give birth to a son, and you shall call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him as a perpetual covenant, and with his offspring after him
    20: Likewise, concerning Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I will bless and enlarge him, and I will multiply him greatly. He will produce twelve leaders, and I will make him into a great nation
    21: Yet in truth, I will establish my covenant with Isaac, to whom Sarah will give birth for you at this time next year.
    22: And when he had finished speaking with him, God ascended from Abraham
    23: Then Abraham took his son Ishmael, and all who were born in his house, and all whom he had bought, every male among the men of his house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskin promptly, the very same day, just as God had instructed him
    24: Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he circumcised the flesh of his foreskin
    25: And his son Ishmael had completed thirteen years at the time of his circumcision
    26: On the very same day, Abraham was circumcised with his son Ishmael
    27: And all the men of his house, those born in his house, as well as those who were bought, even the foreigners, were circumcised with him

  Chapter 18.

    1: Then the Lord appeared to him, in the steep valley of Mamre, when he was sitting at the door of his tent, in the very heat of the day
    2: And when he had lifted up his eyes, there appeared to him three men, standing near him. When he had seen them, he ran to meet them from the door of his tent, and he reverenced them on the ground
    3: And he said: “If I, O lord, have found grace in your eyes, do not pass by your servant
    4: But I will bring a little water, and you may wash your feet and rest under the tree
    5: And I will set out a meal of bread, so that you may strengthen your heart; after this you will pass on. It is for this reason that you have turned aside to your servant.” And they said, “Do as you have spoken.
    6: Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah, and he said to her, “Quickly, mix together three measures of the finest wheat flour and make loaves baked under the ashes.
    7: In truth, he himself ran to the herd, and he took a calf from there, very tender and very good, and he gave it to a servant, who hurried and boiled it
    8: Likewise, he took butter and milk, and the calf which he had boiled, and he placed it before them. Yet truly, he himself stood near them under the tree
    9: And when they had eaten, they said to him, “Where is Sarah your wife?” He answered, “Behold, she is in the tent.
    10: And he said to him, “When returning, I will come to you at this time, with life as a companion, and your wife Sarah will have a son.” Hearing this, Sarah laughed behind the door of the tent
    11: Now they were both old, and in an advanced state of life, and it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women
    12: And she laughed secretly, saying, “After I have grown old, and my lord is elderly, shall I give myself to the work of delight?
    13: Then the Lord said to Abraham: “Why did Sarah laugh, saying: ‘How can I, an old woman, actually give birth?
    14: Is anything difficult for God? According to the announcement, he will return to you at this same time, with life as a companion, and Sarah will have a son.
    15: Sarah denied it, saying, “I did not laugh.” For she was terribly afraid. But the Lord said, “It is not so; for you did laugh.
    16: Therefore, when the men had risen up from there, they directed their eyes against Sodom. And Abraham traveled with them, leading them
    17: And the Lord said: “How could I hide what I am about to do from Abraham
    18: since he will become a great and very robust nation, and in him all the nations of the earth will be blessed
    19: For I know that he will instruct his sons, and his household after him, to keep to the way of the Lord, and to act with judgment and justice, so that, for the sake of Abraham, the Lord may bring about all the things that he has spoken to him.
    20: And so the Lord said, “The outcry from Sodom and Gomorrah has been multiplied, and their sin has become exceedingly grievous
    21: I will descend and see whether they have fulfilled the work of the outcry that has reached me, or whether it is not so, in order that I may know.
    22: And they turned themselves from there, and they went toward Sodom. Yet in truth, Abraham still stood in the sight of the Lord
    23: And as they drew near, he said: “Will you destroy the just with the impious
    24: If there were fifty of the just in the city, will they perish with the rest? And will you not spare that place for the sake of fifty of the just, if they were in it
    25: Far be it from you to do this thing, and to kill the just with the impious, and for the just to be treated like the impious. No, this is not like you. You judge all the earth; you would never make such a judgment.
    26: And the Lord said to him, “If I find in Sodom fifty of the just in the midst of the city, I will release the entire place because of them.
    27: And Abraham responded by saying: “Since now I have begun, I will speak to my Lord, though I am dust and ashes
    28: What if there were five less than fifty of the just? Would you, despite the forty-five, eliminate the entire city?” And he said, “I will not eliminate it, if I find forty-five there.
    29: And again he said to him, “But if forty were found there, what would you do?” He said, “I will not strike, for the sake of the forty.
    30: “I ask you,” he said, “not to be angry, Lord, if I speak. What if thirty were found there?” He responded, “I will not act, if I find thirty there.
    31: “Since now I have begun,” he said, “I will speak to my Lord. What if twenty were found there?” He said, “I will not put to death, for the sake of the twenty.
    32: “I beg you,” he said, “not to be angry, Lord, if I speak yet once more. What if ten were found there?” And he said, “I will not destroy it for the sake of the ten.
    33: And the Lord departed, after he had ceased speaking to Abraham, who then returned to his place

  Chapter 19.

    1: And the two Angels arrived at Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting at the gate of the city. And when he had seen them, he rose up and went to meet them. And he reverenced prone on the ground
    2: And he said: “I beg you, my lords, turn aside to the house of your servant, and lodge there. Wash your feet, and in the morning you will advance on your way.” And they said, “Not at all. But we will lodge in the street.
    3: He pressed them very much to turn aside to him. And when they had entered his house, he made a feast for them, and he cooked unleavened bread, and they ate
    4: But before they went to bed, the men of the city surrounded the house, from boys to old men, all the people together
    5: And they called out to Lot, and they said to him: “Where are the men who entered to you in the night? Bring them out here, so that we may know them.
    6: Lot went out to them, and blocking the door behind him, he said
    7: “Do not, I ask you, my brothers, do not be willing to commit this evil
    8: I have two daughters who as yet have not known man. I will bring them out to you; abuse them as it pleases you, provided that you do no evil to these men, because they have entered under the shadow of my roof.
    9: But they said, “Move away from there.” And again: “You have entered,” they said, “as a stranger; should you then judge? Therefore, we will afflict you yourself more than them.” And they acted very violently against Lot. And they were now at the point of breaking open the doors
    10: And behold, the men put out their hand, and they pulled Lot in to them, and they closed the door
    11: And they struck those who were outside with blindness, from the least to the greatest, so that they were not able to find the door
    12: Then they said to Lot: “Do you have here anyone of yours? All who are yours, sons-in-law, or sons, or daughters, bring them out of this city
    13: For we will eliminate this place, because the outcry among them has increased before the Lord, who sent us to destroy them.
    14: And so Lot, going out, spoke to his sons-in-law, who were going to receive his daughters, and he said: “Rise up. Depart from this place. For the Lord will destroy this city.” And it seemed to them that he was speaking playfully
    15: And when it was morning, the Angels compelled him, saying, “Arise, take your wife, and the two daughters that you have, lest you also should perish amid the wickedness of the city.
    16: And, since he ignored them, they took his hand, and the hand of his wife, as well as that of his two daughters, because the Lord was sparing him
    17: And they brought him out, and placed him beyond the city. And there they spoke to him, saying: “Save your life. Do not look not back. Neither should you stay in the entire surrounding region. But save yourself in the mountain, lest you also should perish.
    18: And Lot said to them: “I beg you, my lord
    19: though your servant has found grace before you, and you have magnified your mercy, which you have shown to me in saving my life, I cannot be saved on the mountain, lest perhaps some misfortune take hold of me and I die
    20: There is a certain city nearby, to which I can flee; it is a little one, and I will be saved in it. Is it not a modest one, and will not my soul live?
    21: And he said to him: “Behold, even now, I have heard your petitions about this, not to overturn the city on behalf of which you have spoken
    22: Hurry and be saved there. For I cannot do anything until you enter there.” For this reason, the name of that city is called Zoar
    23: The sun had risen over the land, and Lot had entered into Zoar
    24: Therefore, the Lord rained upon Sodom and Gomorrah sulphur and fire, from the Lord, out of heaven
    25: And he overturned these cities, and all the surrounding region: all the inhabitants of the cities, and everything that springs from the land
    26: And his wife, looking behind herself, was turned into a statue of salt
    27: Then Abraham, rising up in the morning, in the place where he had stood before with the Lord
    28: looked out toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and the entire land of that region. And he saw embers rising up from the land like smoke from a furnace
    29: For when God overthrew the cities of that region, remembering Abraham, he freed Lot from the overthrow of the cities, in which he had dwelt
    30: And Lot ascended from Zoar, and he stayed on the mountain, and likewise his two daughters with him, (for he was afraid to stay in Zoar) and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters with him
    31: And the elder said to the younger: “Our father is old, and no man remains in the land who can enter to us according to the custom of the whole world
    32: Come, let us inebriate him with wine, and let us sleep with him, so that we may be able to preserve  offspring from our father.
    33: And so they gave their father wine to drink that night. And the elder went in, and she slept with her father. But he did not perceive it, neither when his daughter lay down, nor when she rose up
    34: Likewise, the next day, the elder said to the younger: “Behold, yesterday I slept with my father, let us give him wine to drink yet again this night, and you will sleep with him, so that we may save offspring from our father.
    35: And then they gave their father wine to drink that night also, and the younger daughter went in, and slept with him. And not even then did he perceive when she lay down, or when she rose up
    36: Therefore, the two daughters of Lot conceived by their father
    37: And the elder gave birth to a son, and she called his name Moab. He is the father of the Moabites, even to the present day
    38: Likewise, the younger gave birth to a son, and she called his name Ammon, that is, ‘the son of my people.’ He is the father of the Ammonites, even today

  Chapter 20.

    1: Abraham advanced from there into the southern land, and he lived between Kadesh and Shur. And he sojourned in Gerar
    2: And he said about his wife Sarah: “She is my sister.” Therefore, Abimelech, the king of Gerar, sent for her and took her
    3: Then God came to Abimelech through a dream in the night, and he said to him: “Lo, you shall die because of the woman that you have taken. For she has a husband.
    4: In truth, Abimelech had not touched her, and so he said: “Lord, would you put to death a people, ignorant and just
    5: Did he not say to me, ‘She is my sister,’ and did she not say, ‘He is my brother?’ In the sincerity of my heart and the purity of my hands, I have done this.
    6: And God said to him: “And I know that you have acted with a sincere heart. And therefore I kept you from sinning against me, and I did not release you to touch her
    7: Now therefore, return his wife to the man, for he is a prophet. And he will pray for you, and you will live. But if you are not willing to return her, know this: you shall die a death, you and all that is yours.
    8: And immediately Abimelech, rising up in the night, called all his servants. And he spoke all these words in their hearing, and all the men were very afraid
    9: Then Abimelech called also for Abraham, and he said to him: “What have you done to us? How have we sinned against you, so that you would bring so great a sin upon me and upon my kingdom? You have done to us what you ought not to have done.
    10: And remonstrating him again, he said, “What did you see, so that you would do this?
    11: Abraham responded: “I thought to myself, saying: Perhaps there is no fear of God in this place. And they will put me to death because of my wife
    12: Yet, in another way, she is also truly my sister, the daughter of my father, and not the daughter of my mother, and I took her as a wife
    13: Then, after God led me out of my father’s house, I said to her: ‘You will show this mercy to me. In every place, to which we will travel, you will say that I am your brother.’ 
    14: Therefore, Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and men servants and women servants, and he gave them to Abraham. And he returned his wife Sarah to him
    15: And he said, “The land is in your sight. Dwell wherever it will please you.
    16: Then to Sarah he said: “Behold, I have given your brother one thousand silver coins. This will be for you as a veil for your eyes, to all who are with you and wherever you will travel. And so, remember that you were taken.
    17: Then when Abraham prayed, God healed Abimelech and his wife, and his handmaids, and they gave birth
    18: For the Lord had closed every womb of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, the wife of Abraham

End of day 5.