Day 43:

Reading Deuteronomy, chapters ['13', '14', '15', '16']:

  Chapter 13.

    1: “If there will have arisen in your midst a prophet, or someone who claims that he had seen a dream, and if he will have predicted sign and portent
    2: and if what he has spoken happens, and he says to you, ‘Let us go and follow strange gods,’ which you have not known, ‘and let us serve them,
    3: you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or dreamer. For the Lord your God is testing you, so that it may become clear whether or not you love him with all your heart and with all your soul
    4: Follow the Lord your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and listen to his voice. Him shall you serve, and to him shall you cling
    5: But that prophet or forger of dreams shall be put to death. For he has spoken so as to turn you away from the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt and who redeemed you from the house of servitude, and so as to cause you to wander from the way that the Lord your God has entrusted to you. And so shall you remove the evil from your midst
    6: If your brother, the son of your mother, or your own son or daughter, or your wife who is in your bosom, or your friend, whom you love like your own soul, were willing to persuade you secretly, saying: ‘Let us go, and serve foreign gods,’ which neither you nor your fathers have known
    7: gods from any of the surrounding nations, whether these are near or far away, from the beginning even to the end of the earth
    8: you should neither agree with him, nor listen to him. And your eye should not spare him so that you take pity on him and conceal him
    9: Instead, you shall put him to death promptly. Let your hand be upon him first, and after that, let the hands of all the people be sent forth
    10: He shall be killed by being overwhelmed with stones. For he was willing to draw you away from the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, from the house of servitude
    11: So may all of Israel, upon hearing this, be afraid, so that nothing like this will ever be done again
    12: If, in one of your cities which the Lord your God will give to you as a habitation, you hear someone say
    13: ‘The sons of Belial have departed from your midst, and they have persuaded the inhabitants of their city, and they have said: “Let us go, and serve strange gods,” ’ which you have not known
    14: inquire carefully and diligently, seeking the truth of the matter. And if you find that what was said is certain, and that this abomination is a work which has been perpetrated
    15: you shall promptly strike down the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword. And you shall destroy it, along with all the things that are in it, even the flocks
    16: Then all the household goods which are there, you shall gather together in the midst of its streets, and you shall set fire to these, along with the city itself, so that you may consume everything for the Lord your God, and so that it may be an everlasting tomb. It shall no longer be built up
    17: And there shall remain nothing of that anathema in your hand, so that the Lord may turn from the wrath of his fury, and may take pity on you, and may multiply you, just as he swore to your fathers
    18: when you will heed the voice of the Lord your God, keeping all his precepts, which I am entrusting to you this day, so that you may do what is pleasing in the sight of the Lord your God.

  Chapter 14.

    1: “Be sons of the Lord your God. You shall not cut yourselves, nor make yourselves bald, because of the dead
    2: For you are a holy people, for the Lord your God. And he chose you, so that you may be a people particularly his, out of all the nations on earth
    3: You shall not eat the things that are unclean
    4: These are the animals which you ought to eat: the ox, and the sheep, and the goat
    5: the stag and the roe deer, the gazelle, the wild goat, the addax, the antelope, the giraffe
    6: Every beast which has a hoof divided into two parts and which also chews the cud, you shall eat
    7: But those which chew over again, but do not have a divided hoof, you must not eat, such as the camel, the hare, and the hyrax. Since these chew the cud, but do not have a divided the hoof, they shall be unclean to you
    8: The pig also, since it has a divided hoof, but does not chew over again, shall be unclean. Their flesh shall not be eaten, and you shall not touch their carcasses
    9: These you shall eat out of all that dwells in the waters: whatever has fins and scales, you shall eat
    10: Whatever is without fins and scales, you shall not eat, for these are unclean
    11: All the clean birds, you shall eat
    12: You shall not eat those that are unclean: such as the eagle, and the griffin, and the osprey
    13: the crane, and the vulture, and the kite, according to their kind
    14: and any kind of raven
    15: and the ostrich, and the owl, and the gull, and the hawk, according to their kind
    16: the heron, and the swan, and the ibis
    17: and the sea bird, the marsh hen, and the night raven
    18: the pelican and the plover, each in their kind, likewise the crested hoopoe and the bat
    19: And anything which crawls and also has little wings shall be unclean, and shall not be eaten
    20: All that is clean, you shall eat
    21: But whatever has died of itself, you shall not eat from it. Give it to the sojourner, who is within your gates, so that he may eat, or sell it to him. For you are the holy people of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a young goat in the milk of his mother
    22: Each year, you shall separate the tithes out of all your crops which spring forth from the earth
    23: And you shall eat these in the sight of the Lord your God, in the place which he will choose, so that his name may be invoked there: the tenth part of your grain and wine and oil, and the firstborn from the herds and your sheep. So may you learn to fear the Lord your God at all times
    24: But when the way and the place which the Lord your God will have chosen is further away, and he will have blessed you, so that you are not able to carry all these things to it
    25: you shall sell them all, so as to turn them into money, and you shall carry it in your hand, and you shall set out for the place which the Lord will choose
    26: And you shall buy with the same money whatever pleases you, either from the herds or from the sheep, and also wine and liquor, and all that your soul desires. And you shall eat in the sight of the Lord your God, and you shall feast: you and your household
    27: As for the Levite, who is within your gates, take care that you do not abandon him, for he has no other portion within your possession
    28: In the third year, you shall separate another tenth part of all the things which spring forth for you at that time, and you shall store it within your gates
    29: And the Levite, who has no other portion or possession with you, and the sojourner as well as the orphan and the widow who are within your gates, shall approach and eat and be satisfied, so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the works of your hands which you shall do.

  Chapter 15.

    1: “In the seventh year, you shall perform a remission
    2: which shall be celebrated according to this order. Anyone to whom anything is owed, by his friend or neighbor or brother, will not be able to request its return, because it is the year of remission of the Lord
    3: From the sojourner and the new arrival, you may require its return. From your fellow countryman and neighbor, you will not have the power to request its return
    4: And there shall not be anyone indigent or begging among you, so that the Lord your God may bless you in the land which he will deliver to you as a possession
    5: But only if you heed the voice of the Lord your God, and keep to all that he has ordered, that which I am entrusting to you this day, will he bless you, just as he has promised
    6: You shall lend money to many nations, and you yourselves shall borrow in return from no one. You shall rule over very many nations, and no one shall rule over you
    7: If one of your brothers, who dwells within the gates of your city, in the land which the Lord your God will give to you, falls into poverty, you shall not harden your heart, nor tighten your hand
    8: Instead, you shall open your hand to the poor, and you shall lend to him whatever you perceive him to need
    9: Take care, lest perhaps an impious thought might creep within you, and you might say in your heart: ‘The seventh year of remission approaches.’ And so you might turn your eyes away from your poor brother, unwilling to lend to him what he has asked. If so, then he may cry out against you to the Lord, and it will be a sin for you
    10: Instead, you shall give to him. Neither shall you do anything craftily while assisting him in his needs, so that the Lord your God may bless you, at all times and in all things to which you will put your hand
    11: The poor will not be absent from the land of your habitation. For this reason, I instruct you to open your hand to your indigent and poor brother, who lives among you in the land
    12: When your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, has been sold to you, and has served you for six years, in the seventh year you shall set him free
    13: And when you grant his freedom, you shall by no means permit him to go away empty
    14: Instead, you shall give to him, for his journey, from your flocks and threshing floor and winepress, with which the Lord your God has blessed you
    15: Remember that you yourself also served in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God set you free. And therefore, I now command this of you
    16: But if he will say, ‘I am not willing to depart,’ because he loves you and your household, and because he feels that it would be good for him to stay with you
    17: then you shall take an awl and pierce his ear, at the door of your house. And he shall serve you even forever. You shall also act similarly toward your woman servant
    18: You should not avert your eyes from them when you set them free, because he has served you for six years, in a manner deserving of the pay of a hired hand. So may the Lord your God bless you in all the works that you do
    19: Of the firstborn, those born from your herds and sheep, you shall sanctify to the Lord your God whatever is of the male sex. You shall not put the firstborn of the oxen to work, nor shall you shear the firstborn of the sheep
    20: In the sight of the Lord your God, you shall eat these, each year, in the place which the Lord will choose, you and your household
    21: But if it has a blemish, or is lame, or is blind, or if it is in any part deformed or debilitated, it shall not be immolated to the Lord your God
    22: Instead, you shall eat it within the gates of your city. The clean as well as the unclean alike shall feed on these, such as the roe deer and the stag
    23: This alone shall you observe: that you do not eat their blood, but pour it upon the ground like water.

  Chapter 16.

    1: “Observe the month of new grain, at the beginning of springtime, so that you may accomplish the Passover to the Lord your God. For in this month, the Lord your God led you away from Egypt in the night
    2: And you shall immolate the Passover to the Lord your God, from sheep and from oxen, in the place which the Lord your God will choose, so that his name may dwell there
    3: You shall not eat it with leavened bread. For seven days you shall eat, without leaven, the bread of affliction. For you departed from Egypt in fear. So may you remember the day of your departure from Egypt, throughout all the days of your life
    4: No leaven shall be present in all your confines for seven days. And by morning, there shall not remain any of the flesh which was immolated on the first day in the evening
    5: You cannot immolate the Passover in any of your cities, which the Lord your God will give to you, that you wish
    6: but only in the place which the Lord your God will choose, so that his name may dwell there. You shall immolate the Passover in the evening, upon the setting of the sun, which is the time when you departed from Egypt
    7: And you shall cook and eat it in the place which the Lord your God will choose, and, rising up in the morning, you shall go into your tent
    8: For six days, you shall eat unleavened bread. And on the seventh day, because it is the assembly of the Lord your God, you shall do no work
    9: You shall number for yourself seven weeks from that day, the day on which you put the sickle to the grain field
    10: And you shall celebrate the Feast of Weeks, to the Lord your God, with a voluntary oblation from your hand, which you shall offer according to the blessing of the Lord your God
    11: And you shall feast in the sight of the Lord your God: you, your son and your daughter, your man servant and your woman servant, and the Levite who is within your gates, and the new arrival as well as the orphan and the widow, who abide with you, in the place which the Lord your God will choose, so that his name may dwell there
    12: And you shall recall that you were a servant in Egypt. And you shall preserve and carry out the things that have been instructed
    13: Likewise, you shall celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles for seven days, when you will have gathered your fruits from the orchard and the winepress
    14: And you shall feast at the time of your festival: you, your son and daughter, your man servant and woman servant, likewise the Levite and the new arrival, the orphan and the widow, who are within your gates
    15: For seven days you shall celebrate feasts to the Lord your God in the place which the Lord will choose. And the Lord your God will bless you in all your crops, and in every work of your hands. And you shall be joyful
    16: Three times a year, all your males shall appear in the sight the Lord your God in the place which he will choose: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of Weeks, and at the Feast of Tabernacles. No one shall appear before the Lord empty
    17: But each one shall offer according to what he will have, according to the blessing of the Lord his God, which he will give to him
    18: You shall appoint judges and magistrates at all your gates, which the Lord your God will give to you, throughout each of your tribes, so that they may judge the people with a just judgment
    19: and not so as to show favoritism to either side. You shall not accept a person’s reputation, nor gifts. For gifts blind the eyes of the wise and alter the words of the just
    20: You shall justly pursue what is just, so that you may live and possess the land, which the Lord your God will give to you
    21: You shall not plant a sacred grove, nor shall you plant any tree near the altar of the Lord your God
    22: you shall neither make nor set up for yourself a statue. These things the Lord your God hates.

End of day 43.