Day 159:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['93', '94', '95', '96']:

  Chapter 93.

    1: A Psalm of David himself. The Fourth Sabbath. The Lord is the God of retribution. The God of retribution acts in order to deliver
    2: Lift yourself up, for you judge the earth. Repay the arrogant with retribution
    3: How long will sinners, O Lord, how long will sinners glory
    4: How long will they utter and speak iniquity? How long will all who work injustice speak out
    5: They have humiliated your people, O Lord, and they have harassed your inheritance
    6: They have executed the widow and the new arrival, and they have slaughtered the orphan
    7: And they have said, “The Lord will not see, nor will the God of Jacob understand.
    8: Understand, you senseless ones among the people. And be wise at last, you foolish ones
    9: He who formed the ear, will he not hear? And he who forged the eye, does he not look closely
    10: He who chastises nations, he who teaches man knowledge, will he not rebuke
    11: The Lord knows the thoughts of men: that these are in vain
    12: Blessed is the man whom you will instruct, O Lord. And you will teach him from your law
    13: So may you soothe him from the evil days, until a pit may be dug for sinners
    14: For the Lord will not drive away his people, and he will not abandon his inheritance
    15: even until the time when justice is being converted into judgment, and when those who are close to justice are all those who are upright of heart
    16: Who will rise up with me against the malignant? Or who will stand with me against the workers of iniquity
    17: Except that the Lord assisted me, my soul almost would have dwelt in Hell
    18: If ever I said, “My foot is slipping,” then your mercy, O Lord, assisted me
    19: According to the multitude of my sorrows in my heart, your consolations have given joy to my soul
    20: Does the seat of iniquity adhere to you, you who contrive hardship within a commandment
    21: They will hunt down the soul of the just, and they will condemn innocent blood
    22: And the Lord has been made into a refuge for me, and my God into the assistance of my hope
    23: And he will repay them their iniquity, and he will destroy them in their malice. The Lord our God will utterly destroy them

  Chapter 94.

    1: The Praise of a Canticle, of David himself. Come, let us exult in the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to God, our Savior
    2: Let us anticipate his presence with confession, and let us sing joyfully to him with psalms
    3: For the Lord is a great God and a great King over all gods
    4: For in his hand are all the limits of the earth, and the heights of the mountains are his
    5: For the sea is his, and he made it, and his hands formed the dry land
    6: Come, let us adore and fall prostrate, and let us weep before the Lord who made us
    7: For he is the Lord our God, and we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand
    8: If today you hear his voice, harden not your hearts
    9: as in the provocation, according to the day of temptation in the wilderness, where your fathers tempted me; they tested me, though they had seen my works
    10: For forty years, I was offended by that generation, and I said: These have always strayed in heart
    11: And these have not known my ways. So I swore in my wrath: They shall not enter into my rest

  Chapter 95.

    1: A Canticle of David himself, when the house was built after the captivity. Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord, all the earth
    2: Sing to the Lord and bless his name. Announce his salvation from day to day
    3: Announce his glory among the Gentiles, his miracles among all peoples
    4: For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is terrible, beyond all gods
    5: For all the gods of the Gentiles are demons, but the Lord made the heavens
    6: Confession and beauty are in his sight. Sanctity and magnificence are in his sanctuary
    7: Bring to the Lord, you natives of the nations, bring to the Lord glory and honor
    8: Bring to the Lord glory for his name. Lift up sacrifices, and enter into his courts
    9: Adore the Lord in his holy court. Let the entire earth be shaken before his face
    10: Say among the Gentiles: The Lord has reigned. For he has even corrected the whole world, which will not be shaken. He will judge the peoples with fairness
    11: Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth exult; let the sea and all its fullness be moved
    12: The fields and all the things that are in them will be glad. Then all the trees of the forest will rejoic
    13: before the face of the Lord: for he arrives. For he arrives to judge the earth. He will judge the whole world with fairness and the peoples with his truth

  Chapter 96.

    1: This is to David, when his land was restored to him. The Lord has reigned, let the earth exult. Let the many islands rejoice
    2: Clouds and mist are all around him. Justice and judgment are corrections from his throne
    3: A fire will precede him, and it will enflame his enemies all around
    4: His lightnings have enlightened the whole world. The earth saw, and it was shaken
    5: The mountains flowed like wax before the face of the Lord, before the face of the Lord of all the earth
    6: The heavens announced his justice, and all peoples saw his glory
    7: May all those who adore graven images be confounded, along with those who glory in their false images. All you his Angels: Adore him
    8: Zion heard, and was glad. And the daughters of Judah exulted because of your judgments, O Lord
    9: For you are the Most High Lord over all the earth. You are greatly exalted above all gods
    10: You who love the Lord: hate evil. The Lord watches over the souls of his holy ones. He will free them from the hand of the sinner
    11: The light has risen for the just, and joy for the upright of heart
    12: Rejoice in the Lord, you just ones, and confess to the memory of his sanctuary

End of day 159.