Day 291:

Reading Mark, chapters ['1', '2', '3', '4']:

  Chapter 1.

    1: The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God
    2: As it has been written by the prophet Isaiah: “Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you
    3: The voice of one crying out in the desert: Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight his paths.
    4: John was in the desert, baptizing and preaching a baptism of repentance, as a remission of sins
    5: And there went out to him all the region of Judea and all those of Jerusalem, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins
    6: And John was clothed with camel’s hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey
    7: And he preached, saying: “One stronger than me comes after me. I am not worthy to reach down and loosen the laces of his shoes
    8: I have baptized you with water. Yet truly, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
    9: And it happened that, in those days, Jesus arrived from Nazareth of Galilee. And he was baptized by John in the Jordan
    10: And immediately, upon ascending from the water, he saw the heavens opened and the Spirit, like a dove, descending, and remaining with him
    11: And there was a voice from heaven: “You are my beloved Son; in you I am well pleased.
    12: And immediately the Spirit prompted him into the desert
    13: And he was in the desert for forty days and forty nights. And he was tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the Angels ministered to him
    14: Then, after John was handed over, Jesus went into Galilee, preaching the Gospel of the kingdom of God
    15: and saying: “For the time has been fulfilled and the kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent and believe in the Gospel.
    16: And passing by the shore of the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother Andrew, casting nets into the sea, for they were fishermen
    17: And Jesus said to them, “Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men.
    18: And at once abandoning their nets, they followed him
    19: And continuing on a little ways from there, he saw James of Zebedee and his brother John, and they were mending their nets in a boat
    20: And immediately he called them. And leaving behind their father Zebedee in the boat with his hired hands, they followed him
    21: And they entered into Capernaum. And entering into the synagogue promptly on the Sabbaths, he taught them
    22: And they were astonished over his doctrine. For he was teaching them as one who has authority, and not like the scribes
    23: And in their synagogue, there was a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out
    24: saying: “What are we to you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God.
    25: And Jesus admonished him, saying, “Be silent, and depart from the man.
    26: And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, departed from him
    27: And they were all so amazed that they inquired among themselves, saying: “What is this? And what is this new doctrine? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.
    28: And his fame went out quickly, throughout the entire region of Galilee
    29: And soon after departing from the synagogue, they went into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John
    30: But the mother-in-law of Simon lay ill with a fever. And at once they told him about her
    31: And drawing near to her, he raised her up, taking her by the hand. And immediately the fever left her, and she ministered to them
    32: Then, when evening arrived, after the sun had set, they brought to him all who had maladies and those who had demons
    33: And the entire city was gathered together at the door
    34: And he healed many who were troubled with various illnesses. And he cast out many demons, but he would not permit them to speak, because they knew him
    35: And rising up very early, departing, he went out to a deserted place, and there he prayed
    36: And Simon, and those who were with him, followed after him
    37: And when they had found him, they said to him, “For everyone is seeking you.
    38: And he said to them: “Let us go into the neighboring towns and cities, so that I may preach there also. Indeed, it was for this reason that I came.
    39: And he was preaching in their synagogues and throughout all of Galilee, and casting out demons
    40: And a leper came to him, begging him. And kneeling down, he said to him, “If you are willing, you are able to cleanse me.
    41: Then Jesus, taking pity on him, reached out his hand. And touching him, he said to him: “I am willing. Be cleansed.
    42: And after he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed
    43: And he admonished him, and he promptly sent him away
    44: And he said to him: “See to it that you tell no one. But go and show yourself to the high priest, and offer for your cleansing that which Moses instructed, as a testimony for them.
    45: But having departed, he began to preach and to disseminate the word, so that he was no longer able to openly enter a city, but had to remain outside, in deserted places. And they were gathered to him from every direction

  Chapter 2.

    1: And after some days, he again entered into Capernaum
    2: And it was heard that he was in the house. And so many gathered that there was no room left, not even at the door. And he spoke the word to them
    3: And they came to him, bringing a paralytic, who was being carried by four men
    4: And when they were not able to present him to him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. And opening it, they lowered down the stretcher on which the paralytic was lying
    5: Then, when Jesus had seen their faith, he said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven you.
    6: But some of the scribes were sitting in that place and thinking in their hearts
    7: “Why is this man speaking in this way? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins, but God alone?
    8: At once, Jesus, realizing in his spirit that they were thinking this within themselves, said to them: “Why are you thinking these things in your hearts
    9: Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise up, take up your stretcher, and walk?
    10: But so that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins,” he said to the paralytic
    11: “I say to you: Rise up, take up your stretcher, and go into your house.
    12: And immediately he got up, and lifting up his stretcher, he went away in the sight of them all, so that they all wondered. And they honored God, by saying, “We have never seen anything like this.
    13: And he departed again to the sea. And the entire crowd came to him, and he taught them
    14: And as he was passing by, he saw Levi of Alphaeus, sitting at the customs office. And he said to him, “Follow me.” And rising up, he followed him
    15: And it happened that, as he sat at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners sat at table together with Jesus and his disciples. For those who followed him were many
    16: And the scribes and the Pharisees, seeing that he ate with tax collectors and sinners, said to his disciples, “Why does your Teacher eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
    17: Jesus, having heard this, said to them: “The healthy have no need of a doctor, but those who have maladies do. For I came not to call the just, but sinners.
    18: And the disciples of John, and the Pharisees, were fasting. And they arrived and said to him, “Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?
    19: And Jesus said to them: “How can the sons of the wedding fast while the groom is still with them? During whatever time they have the groom with them, they are not able to fast
    20: But the days will arrive when the groom will be taken away from them, and then they shall fast, in those days
    21: No one sews a patch of new cloth onto an old garment. Otherwise, the new addition pulls away from the old, and the tear becomes worse
    22: And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wine will burst the wineskins, and the wine will pour out, and the wineskins will be lost. Instead, new wine must be put into new wineskins.
    23: And again, while the Lord was walking through the ripe grain on the Sabbath, his disciples, as they advanced, began to separate the ears of grains
    24: But the Pharisees said to him, “Behold, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbaths?
    25: And he said to them: “Have you never read what David did, when he had need and was hungry, both he and those who were with him
    26: How he went into the house of God, under the high priest Abiathar, and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful to eat, except for the priests, and how he gave it to those who were with him?
    27: And he said to them: “The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath
    28: And so, the Son of man is Lord, even of the Sabbath.

  Chapter 3.

    1: And again, he entered into the synagogue. And there was a man there who had a withered hand
    2: And they observed him, to see if he would cure on the Sabbaths, so that they might accuse him
    3: And he said to the man who had the withered hand, “Stand up in the middle.
    4: And he said to them: “Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbaths, or to do evil, to give health to a life, or to destroy?” But they remained silent
    5: And looking around at them with anger, being very saddened over the blindness of their hearts, he said to the man, “Extend your hand.” And he extended it, and his hand was restored to him
    6: Then the Pharisees, going out, immediately took counsel with the Herodians against him, as to how they might destroy him
    7: But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea. And a great crowd followed him from Galilee and Judea
    8: and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea and across the Jordan. And those around Tyre and Sidon, upon hearing what he was doing, came to him in a great multitude
    9: And he told his disciples that a small boat would be useful to him, because of the crowd, lest they press upon him
    10: For he healed so many, that as many of them as had wounds would rush toward him in order to touch him
    11: And the unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell prostrate before him. And they cried out, saying
    12: “You are the Son of God.” And he strongly admonished them, lest they make him known
    13: And ascending onto a mountain, he called to himself those whom he willed, and they came to him
    14: And he acted so that the twelve would be with him, and so that he might send them out to preach
    15: And he gave them authority to cure infirmities, and to cast out demons
    16: and he imposed on Simon the name Peter
    17: and also he imposed on James of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, the name ‘Boanerges,’ that is, ‘Sons of Thunder;
    18: and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James of Alphaeus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Canaanite
    19: and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him
    20: And they went to a house, and the crowd gathered together again, so much so that they were not even able to eat bread
    21: And when his own had heard of it, they went out to take hold of him. For they said: “Because he has gone mad.
    22: And the scribes who had descended from Jerusalem said, “Because he has Beelzebub, and because by the prince of demons does he cast out demons.
    23: And having called them together, he spoke to them in parables: “How can Satan cast out Satan
    24: For if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom is not able to stand
    25: And if a house is divided against itself, that house is not able to stand
    26: And if Satan has risen up against himself, he would be divided, and he would not be able to stand; instead he reaches the end
    27: No one is able to plunder the goods of a strong man, having entered into the house, unless he first binds the strong man, and then he shall plunder his house
    28: Amen I say to you, that all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and the blasphemies by which they will have blasphemed
    29: But he who will have blasphemed against the Holy Spirit shall not have forgiveness in eternity; instead he shall be guilty of an eternal offense.
    30: For they said: “He has an unclean spirit.
    31: And his mother and brothers arrived. And standing outside, they sent to him, calling him
    32: And the crowd was sitting around him. And they said to him, “Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside, seeking you.
    33: And responding to them, he said, “Who is my mother and my brothers?
    34: And looking around at those who were sitting all around him, he said: “Behold, my mother and my brothers
    35: For whoever has done the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister and mother.

  Chapter 4.

    1: And again, he began to teach by the sea. And a great crowd was gathered to him, so much so that, climbing into a boat, he was seated on the sea. And the entire crowd was on the land along the sea
    2: And he taught them many things in parables, and he said to them, in his doctrine
    3: “Listen. Behold, the sower went out to sow
    4: And while he was sowing, some fell along the way, and the birds of the air came and ate it
    5: Yet truly, others fell upon stony ground, where it did not have much soil. And it rose up quickly, because it had no depth of soil
    6: And when the sun was risen, it was scorched. And because it had no root, it withered away
    7: And some fell among thorns. And the thorns grew up and suffocated it, and it did not produce fruit
    8: And some fell on good soil. And it brought forth fruit that grew up, and increased, and yielded: some thirty, some sixty, and some one hundred.
    9: And he said, “Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.
    10: And when he was alone, the twelve, who were with him, questioned him about the parable
    11: And he said to them: “To you, it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. But to those who are outside, everything is presented in parables
    12: ‘so that, seeing, they may see, and not perceive; and hearing, they may hear, and not understand; lest at any time they may be converted, and their sins would be forgiven them.’ 
    13: And he said to them: “Do you not understand this parable? And so, how will you understand all the parables
    14: He who sows, sows the word
    15: Now there are those who are along the way, where the word is sown. And when they have heard it, Satan quickly comes and takes away the word, which was sown in their hearts
    16: And similarly, there are those who were sown upon stony ground. These, when they have heard the word, immediately accept it with gladness
    17: But they have no root in themselves, and so they are for a limited time. And when next tribulation and persecution arises because of the word, they quickly fall away
    18: And there are others who are sown among thorns. These are those who hear the word
    19: but worldly tasks, and the deception of riches, and desires about other things enter in and suffocate the word, and it is effectively without fruit
    20: And there are those who are sown upon good soil, who hear the word and accept it; and these bear fruit: some thirty, some sixty, and some one hundred.
    21: And he said to them: “Would someone enter with a lamp in order to place it under a basket or under a bed? Would it not be placed upon a lampstand
    22: For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed. Neither was anything done in secret, except that it may be made public
    23: If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.
    24: And he said to them: “Consider what you hear. With whatever measure you have measured out, it shall be measured back to you, and more shall be added to you
    25: For whoever has, to him it shall be given. And whoever has not, from him even what he has shall be taken away.
    26: And he said: “The kingdom of God is like this: it is as if a man were to cast seed on the land
    27: And he sleeps and he arises, night and day. And the seed germinates and grows, though he does not know it
    28: For the earth bears fruit readily: first the plant, then the ear, next the full grain in the ear
    29: And when the fruit has been produced, immediately he sends out the sickle, because the harvest has arrived.
    30: And he said: “To what should we compare the kingdom of God? Or to what parable should we compare it
    31: It is like a grain of mustard seed which, when it has been sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds which are in the earth
    32: And when it is sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all the plants, and it produces great branches, so much so that the birds of the air are able to live under its shadow.
    33: And with many such parables he spoke the word to them, as much as they were able to hear
    34: But he did not speak to them without a parable. Yet separately, he explained all things to his disciples
    35: And on that day, when evening had arrived, he said to them, “Let us cross over.
    36: And dismissing the crowd, they brought him, so that he was in one boat, and other boats were with him
    37: And a great wind storm occurred, and the waves broke over the boat, so that the boat was being filled
    38: And he was in the stern of the boat, sleeping on a pillow. And they woke him and said to him, “Teacher, does it not concern you that we are perishing?
    39: And rising up, he rebuked the wind, and he said to the sea: “Silence. Be stilled.” And the wind ceased. And a great tranquility occurred
    40: And he said to them: “Why are you afraid? Do you still lack faith?” And they were struck with a great fear. And they said to one another, “Who do you think this is, that both wind and sea obey him?

End of day 291.