Day 28:

Reading Leviticus, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: Speak to Aaron and his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, saying to them: This is the word, which the Lord has commanded, saying
    3: Any man at all of the house of Israel, if he will have killed an ox, or a sheep, or a goat in the camp or beyond the camp
    4: and not have presented it as an oblation to the Lord at the door of the tabernacle, he shall be guilty of blood. It is just as if he had shed blood; so then, he shall perish from the midst of his people
    5: Therefore, the sons of Israel must offer to the priest their victims, which they kill in the field, so that they may be sanctified to the Lord before the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, and so that they may immolate them as peace offerings to the Lord
    6: And the priest shall pour the blood upon the altar of the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, and he shall burn the fat as a sweet odor to the Lord
    7: And they shall no longer immolate their victims to demons, with whom they have committed fornication. It shall be an everlasting ordinance for them and for their posterity
    8: And you shall say to them: The man of the house of Israel, or of the newcomers who sojourn with you, who offers a holocaust or a victim
    9: and who does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, so that it may be offered to the Lord, shall pass away from his people
    10: Any man at all of the house of Israel, or of the newcomers who sojourn among them, if he has eaten blood, I will harden my face against his soul, and I will drive him from his people
    11: For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you, so that you may atone with it upon the altar for your souls, and so that the blood may be for an expiation of the soul
    12: For this reason, I have said to the sons of Israel: No soul among you shall eat blood, nor among the newcomers who sojourn with you
    13: Any man at all from the sons of Israel, or from the newcomers who sojourn with you, whether by hunting or bird-catching, if he seizes a wild beast or a bird, which is lawful to eat, let him pour out its blood and cover the earth with it
    14: For the life of all flesh is in the blood. Therefore, I said to the sons of Israel: You shall not eat the blood of any flesh at all, because the life of the flesh is in the blood, and whoever has eaten it shall perish
    15: The soul who eats what has died on its own, or what has been caught by a beast, whether he is native born or a newcomer, shall wash his clothes and himself with water, and he shall be contaminated until evening. And by this means he shall be made clean
    16: But if he will not wash his clothes and his body, he shall bear his iniquity

  Chapter 18.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: I am the Lord your God
    3: You shall not act according to the custom of the land of Egypt, in which you have lived; nor shall you behave according to the habit of the region of Canaan, into which I will lead you; neither shall you walk in their ordinances
    4: You shall accomplish my judgments, and you shall observe my precepts, and you shall walk in them. I am the Lord your God
    5: Keep my laws and judgments; when a man does these, he shall live by them. I am the Lord
    6: No man shall approach her who is a close blood-relative to him, so as to uncover her nakedness. I am the Lord
    7: You shall not expose the nakedness of your father, or the nakedness of your mother. She is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness
    8: You shall not expose the nakedness of your father’s wife; for it is the nakedness of your father
    9: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, whether from father or from mother, whether she was born at home or abroad
    10: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son’s daughter, or your daughter’s daughter; for it is your own nakedness
    11: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, whom she bore to your father, and who is your sister
    12: You shall not expose the nakedness of your father’s sister; for she is the flesh of your father
    13: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, because she is the flesh of your mother
    14: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother, nor shall you approach his wife, who is joined to you by affinity
    15: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law, for she is your son’s wife; neither shall you expose her dishonor
    16: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife; for it is the nakedness of your brother
    17: You shall not uncover the nakedness of your wife and her daughter. You shall not take her son’s daughter or her daughter’s daughter, so as to uncover her dishonor; for they are her flesh, and such sexual intercourse is incest
    18: You shall not take your wife’s sister as a rival mistress; nor shall you uncover her nakedness, while your wife is still living
    19: You shall not approach a woman who is undergoing menstruation, nor shall you uncover her foulness
    20: You shall not have sexual intercourse with your neighbor’s wife, nor shall you be defiled by the mingling of seed
    21: You shall not give some of your seed to be consecrated to the idol Moloch, nor to pollute the name of your God. I am the Lord
    22: You shall not commit sexual acts with a male, in place of sexual intercourse with a female, for this is an abomination
    23: You shall not commit sexual acts with any animal, nor shall you be defiled by it. A woman shall not lie down with a beast, nor commit sexual acts with it; for this is wickedness
    24: Do not pollute yourselves with any of these things, by which all of the nations, which I will cast out in your sight, have been contaminate
    25: and by which the land has been polluted. I will visit the wickedness of the land, so that it may vomit out its inhabitants
    26: Keep my ordinances and judgments, and do not do any of these abominations: the native born, as well as the settler, who sojourns among you
    27: For all these detestable things were done by the inhabitants of the land who were here before you, and they have polluted it
    28: Therefore, beware, lest in a similar manner, it may vomit you out as well, if you do these same things, just as it vomited out the people who were before you
    29: Every soul who shall commit any of these abominations shall perish from the midst of his people
    30: Keep my commandments. Do not be willing to do the things which have been done by those who were before you, and do not be polluted by these things. I am the Lord your God

  Chapter 19.

    1: The Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: Speak to the entire assembly of the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: Be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am holy
    3: Let each one fear his father and his mother. Observe my Sabbaths. I am the Lord your God
    4: Do not be willing to convert to idols, neither should you make molten gods for yourselves. I am the Lord your God
    5: If you immolate a victim of peace offerings to the Lord, so that he may be appeased
    6: you shall eat it on the same day as when it was immolated, and the next day. Then whatever will remain on the third day you shall burn with fire
    7: If anyone, after two days, will have eaten from it, he shall be profane and guilty of impiety
    8: And he shall bear his iniquity, for he has polluted what is holy to the Lord. And that soul shall perish from his people
    9: When you will have harvested the grain fields of your land, you shall not cut it down to the surface of the land, even to the ground, nor shall you gather the remaining ears of grain
    10: Neither shall you gather the clusters or individual grapes which fall down in your vineyard, but you shall leave them for paupers and travelers to take. I am the Lord your God
    11: You shall not steal. You shall not lie. Neither shall anyone deceive his neighbor
    12: You shall not commit perjury in my name, nor shall you pollute the name of your God. I am the Lord
    13: You shall not slander your neighbor, nor shall you oppress him by violence. The wages of a hired hand, you shall not delay with you until tomorrow
    14: You shall not speak evil of the deaf, nor shall you place a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear the Lord your God, for I am the Lord
    15: You shall not do what is unjust, nor shall you judge unjustly. You shall not consider the reputation of the poor, nor shall you honor the countenance of the powerful. Judge your neighbor justly
    16: You shall not be a detractor, nor a whisperer, among the people. You shall not stand against the blood of your neighbor. I am the Lord
    17: You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but reprove him openly, lest you have sin over him
    18: Do not seek revenge, neither should you be mindful of the injury of your fellow citizens. You shall love your friend as yourself. I am the Lord
    19: Observe my laws. You shall not cause your cattle to breed with other kinds of animals. You shall not sow your field with diverse seeds. You shall not be clothed with a garment which has been woven from two things
    20: If a man will have slept in sexual intercourse with a woman, who is a servant and who is also able to be married, and yet he has not redeemed her with a price, nor paid to set her free, they both shall be beaten, but they shall not die, for she was not a free woman
    21: But, for his offense, he shall offer a ram to the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony
    22: And the priest shall pray for him, and for his sin, before the Lord, and he shall win his favor again for him, and the sin shall be forgiven
    23: When you will have entered into the land, and will have planted in it fruit trees, you shall take away their first-fruits; the fruit that germinates shall be unclean to you, neither shall you eat from these
    24: But in the fourth year, all their fruit shall be sanctified for the praise of the Lord
    25: And in the fifth year you shall eat the produce, gathering the fruits which are brought forth. I am the Lord your God
    26: You shall not eat with blood. You shall not practice divination, nor the observation of dreams
    27: And you shall not cut the hair of your head circularly, nor shave your beard
    28: You shall not cut your flesh for the dead, and you shall not make other figures or marks on yourself. I am the Lord
    29: Do not prostitute your daughter, lest the land be contaminated and filled with crimes
    30: Observe my Sabbaths, and be apprehensive toward my Sanctuary. I am the Lord
    31: Do not turn aside to astrologers, nor consult with soothsayers, so as to be polluted through them. I am the Lord your God
    32: Rise up in the presence of a gray-haired head, and honor the reputation of an elder, and fear the Lord your God. I am the Lord
    33: If a newcomer lives in your land and abides among you, do not reproach him
    34: but let him be among you like one native born. And you shall love him as yourselves. For you were also newcomers in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God
    35: Do not be willing to accomplish iniquity in judgment, in lengths, in weights, in quantities
    36: Let the scales be just and the weights equal, let the dry measure be just and the liquid measure be equal. I am the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt
    37: Keep all my precepts, and all my judgments, and accomplish them. I am the Lord

  Chapter 20.

    1: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying
    2: You shall speak these things to the sons of Israel: A man among the sons Israel, or among the newcomers who live in Israel, if he will have given from his seed to the idol Moloch, he shall be put to death: the people of the land shall stone him
    3: And I will set my face against him. And I will cut him down from the midst of his people, because he has given from his seed to Moloch, and he has contaminated my Sanctuary, and polluted my holy name
    4: But if the people of the land, having been neglectful and holding little regard for my authority, release the man who has given from his seed to Moloch, and they are not willing to kill him
    5: I will set my face over that man and over his kindred, and I will cut down both him and all who consented with him to fornicate with Moloch, from the midst of their people
    6: The soul who will have turned aside to astrologers and soothsayers, and who will have fornicated with them, I will set my face against him, and I will destroy him from the midst of his people
    7: Be sanctified and be holy, for I am the Lord your God
    8: Observe my precepts, and do them. I am the Lord, who sanctifies you
    9: Whoever curses his father or mother shall die a death; he has cursed his father and mother. So let his blood be upon him
    10: If anyone will have committed sexual acts with the wife of another, or will have perpetrated adultery with his neighbor’s spouse, they shall die a death, both the adulterer and the adulteress
    11: Whoever will have slept with his stepmother, or will have uncovered the shame of his father, they shall both die a death. So let their blood be upon them
    12: If any man will have slept with his daughter-in-law, both shall die, for they have acted according to wickedness. So let their blood be upon them
    13: If any man has slept with a male in place of sexual intercourse with a female, both have committed a nefarious act, they shall die a death. So let their blood be upon them
    14: If any man, having taken the daughter as a wife, will have married her mother, he has acted according to wickedness. He shall be burnt alive with them. Neither shall so great a nefarious act persist in your midst
    15: Whoever will have committed sexual acts with any animal or cattle, he shall die a death. Likewise, you shall slay the beast
    16: The woman who will have lain under any animal at all shall be destroyed together with it. So let their blood be upon them
    17: Whoever will have taken his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother, and will have seen her nakedness, and she will have looked upon her brother’s shame, they have committed a nefarious act. They shall be slain in the sight of their people, because they have uncovered one another’s nakedness. And they shall bear their iniquity
    18: Whoever has sexual intercourse with a woman in her menstrual flow, and has uncovered her nakedness, and she has opened the fountain of her blood, both shall be destroyed from the midst of their people
    19: You shall not expose the nakedness of your maternal or paternal aunt. Whoever does this has laid bare the shame of his own flesh; both shall bear their iniquity
    20: If any man has had sexual intercourse with the wife of his paternal or maternal uncle, and he has uncovered the shame of his close relative, both shall bear their sin. They shall die without children
    21: Whoever will have married his brother’s wife has done an unlawful thing; he has uncovered his brother’s nakedness. They shall be without children
    22: Observe my laws as well as my judgments, and act according to them, lest the land, into which you will enter and live, may vomit you out, too
    23: Do not be willing to walk by the ordinances of the nations, which I will expel before you. For they have done all these things, and so I abominate them
    24: But I say to you: Possess their land, which I will give to you as an inheritance, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God, who has separated you from the other peoples
    25: Therefore, you must also separate the clean animals from the unclean, and the clean birds from the unclean. Do not pollute your souls with cattle, or birds, or anything that moves upon the earth, and which I have shown you to be unclean
    26: You shall be holy unto me, because I, the Lord, am holy, and I have separated you from the other peoples, so that you would be mine
    27: A man or a woman, in whom there is an oracle-like or a divining spirit, shall be put to death. They shall stone them. So let their blood be upon them

End of day 28.