Day 179:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: Just as with the dividing of the waters, so also is the heart of the king in the hand of the Lord. He shall bend it whichever way he wills
    2: Every way of a man seems right to himself. But the Lord weighs hearts
    3: To do mercy and judgment is more pleasing to the Lord than sacrifices
    4: To lift up the eyes is to enlarge the heart. The lamp of the impious is sin
    5: The intentions of the robust continually bring forth abundance. But all the lazy are continually in need
    6: Whoever gathers treasures by a lying tongue is vain and heartless. And he will stumble into the snares of death
    7: The robberies of the impious will drag them down, because they were not willing to do judgment
    8: The perverse way of a man is foreign. But whoever is pure: his work is upright
    9: It is better to sit in a corner of the attic, than with a contentious woman and in a shared house
    10: The soul of the impious desires evil; he will not take pity on his neighbor
    11: When the pestilent is punished, a little one will become wiser. And if he pursues what is wise, he will receive knowledge
    12: The just thinks carefully about the house of the impious, so that he may draw the impious away from evil
    13: Whoever blocks his ears to the outcry of the poor shall also cry out himself, and he will not be heeded
    14: A surprise gift extinguishes anger. And a gift concealed in the bosom extinguishes the greatest indignation
    15: It is gladness for the just to do judgment; and it is dread for those who work iniquity
    16: A man who wanders astray from the way of doctrine will linger in the company of the giants
    17: Whoever loves a feast will be in deprivation. Whoever loves wine and fatness will not be enriched
    18: The impious is given over instead of the just, and the iniquitous is given over in place of the upright
    19: It is better to live in a deserted land, than with a quarrelsome and emotional woman
    20: There is desirable treasure, as well as oil, in the habitations of the just. And the imprudent man will waste it
    21: Whoever follows justice and mercy shall discover life, justice, and glory
    22: The wise has ascended the city of the strong, and he has torn down the bulwark of its confidence
    23: Whoever guards his mouth and his tongue guards his soul from anguish
    24: A proud and arrogant one is also called ignorant, if he, in anger, acts according to pride
    25: Desires kill the lazy, for his hands are not willing to work at all
    26: He covets and desires all day long. But whoever is just shall distribute and shall not cease
    27: The sacrifices of the impious are abominable, because they are offered out of wickedness
    28: A lying witness will perish. An obedient man shall speak of victory
    29: The impious man insolently hardens his face. But whoever is upright corrects his own way
    30: There is no wisdom, there is no prudence, there is no counsel, which is against the Lord
    31: The horse is prepared for the day of battle. But the Lord bestows salvation

  Chapter 22.

    1: A good name is better than many riches. And good esteem is above silver and gold
    2: The rich and poor have met one another. The Lord is the maker of them both
    3: The clever saw evil and hid himself. The innocent continued on and was afflicted with damage
    4: The end of moderation is the fear of the Lord, riches and glory and life
    5: Weapons and swords are on the way of the perverse. But he who guards his own soul withdraws far from them
    6: The proverb is: A youth is close to his way; even when he is old, he will not withdraw from it
    7: The rich rule over the poor. And the borrower is servant to the lender
    8: Whoever sows iniquity will reap evils, and by the rod of his own wrath he will be consumed
    9: Whoever is inclined to mercy shall be blessed, for from his bread he has given to the poor. Whoever gives gifts will acquire victory and honor. But he carries away the soul of the receiver
    10: Cast out the one who ridicules, and conflict will go out with him, and accusations and insults will cease
    11: Whoever loves cleanness of heart, because of the grace of his lips, will have the king as his friend
    12: The eyes of the Lord watch over knowledge. And the words of the iniquitous are supplanted
    13: The lazy one says: “There is a lion outside. I might be slain in the midst of the streets.
    14: The mouth of a foreign woman is a deep pit; the Lord was angry with him who will fall into it
    15: Foolishness has been bound to the heart of a child, and a rod of discipline shall cause it to flee
    16: Whoever slanders the poor, so as to augment his own riches, will give it away to one who is richer, and will be in need
    17: Incline your ear, and listen to the words of the wise. Then apply your heart to my doctrine
    18: It shall be beautiful to you, if you preserve it in your inner self, and it shall overflow from your lips
    19: so that your confidence may be in the Lord. Therefore, I also have revealed it to you this day
    20: Behold, I have written it for you in three ways, and with meditations and knowledge
    21: so that I might reveal to you, firmly and with words of truth, in order to respond about these things to those who sent you
    22: Do not act with violence toward the pauper because he is poor. And do not weary the needy at the gate
    23: For the Lord will judge his case, and he will pierce those who have pierced his soul
    24: Do not be willing to be a friend to an angry man, and do not walk with a furious man
    25: lest perhaps you learn his ways, and take up a stumbling block to your soul
    26: Do not be willing to be with those who certify with their hands, and who offer themselves as a guarantee against debts
    27: For if you do not have the means to restore, what reason should there be for him to take the covering from your bed
    28: Do not cross beyond the ancient limits that your fathers have set
    29: Have you seen a man swift in his work? He shall stand in the sight of kings, and not before those who are disreputable

  Chapter 23.

    1: When you sit down to eat with a leader, pay close attention to what has been set before your face
    2: and put a knife to your throat, if, in such a way, you could hold your soul in your own power
    3: Do not desire his foods, in which is the bread of deceit
    4: Do not be willing to labor so that you may be enriched. But set limits by your prudence
    5: Do not raise your eyes toward wealth that you are not able to have. For they will make themselves wings, like those of an eagle, and they will fly in the sky
    6: Do not eat with an envious man, and do not desire his foods
    7: For, like a seer and an interpreter of dreams, he presumes what he does not know. “Eat and drink,” he will say to you; and his mind is not with you
    8: The foods that you had eaten, you will vomit up. And you will lose the beauty in your words
    9: Do not speak into the ears of the unwise. They will despise the doctrine of your eloquence
    10: Do not touch the boundaries of little ones, and do not enter into the field of the fatherless
    11: For their close relative is strong, and he will judge their case against you
    12: Let your heart enter into doctrine, and let your ears enter into words of knowledge
    13: Do not be willing to take away discipline from a child. For if you strike him with the rod, he will not die
    14: You will strike him with the rod, and so shall you deliver his soul from Hell
    15: My son, if your soul will become wise, my heart will be glad with you
    16: And my temperament will exult, when your lips will have spoken what is upright
    17: Let not your heart compete with sinners. But be in the fear of the Lord all day long
    18: For you will have hope in the end, and your expectation will not be taken away
    19: Listen, my son, and be wise, and direct your soul along the way
    20: Do not be willing to be in the feasts of great drinkers, nor in the carousings of those who gather to feed on flesh
    21: For those who waste time drinking, and who surrender themselves to symbols, will be consumed. And those who sleep will be clothed in rags
    22: Listen to your father, who conceived you. And do not despise your mother, when she is old
    23: Purchase truth, and do not sell wisdom, or doctrine, or understanding
    24: The father of the just exults in gladness; he who has conceived the wise will rejoice in him
    25: Let your father and your mother be joyful, and may she who conceived you exult
    26: My son, offer me your heart, and let your eyes keep to my ways
    27: For a loose woman is a deep pit, and a foreign woman is a constricted well
    28: She lies in wait along the way like a robber. And the incautious one whom she sees, she will put to death
    29: Who has woe? Whose father has woe? Who has quarrels? Who falls into pits? Who has wounds without cause? Who has watery eyes
    30: Is it not those who linger over wine, and who strive to be drinking from their cups
    31: Do not gaze into the wine when it turns gold, when its color shines in the glass. It enters pleasantly
    32: but in the end, it will bite like a snake, and it will spread poison like a king of snakes
    33: Your eyes will see women who are outsiders, and your heart will utter perversities
    34: And you will be like someone sleeping in the middle of the sea, and like a pilot, fast asleep, who has lost his hold on the helm
    35: And you will say: “They have beaten me, but I did not feel pain. They have dragged me, and I did not realize it. When will I awaken and find more wine?

  Chapter 24.

    1: Do not imitate evil men, nor desire to be among them
    2: For their mind meditates on robberies, and their lips speak deceptions
    3: By wisdom shall a house be built, and by prudence shall it be strengthened
    4: By doctrine, the storerooms shall be filled with every substance that is precious and most beautiful
    5: A wise man is strong, and a well-taught man is robust and valiant
    6: For war is undertaken in an orderly manner, and safety shall be where there are many counsels
    7: Wisdom is beyond the foolish; at the gate he will not open his mouth
    8: Whoever intends to do evil shall be called foolish
    9: The intention of the foolish is sin. And the detractor is an abomination among men
    10: If you despair, being weary in the day of anguish, your strength will be diminished
    11: Rescue those who are led away to death. And do not cease from delivering those who are dragged away to a violent death
    12: If you would say: “I do not have sufficient strength.” He who inspects the heart, the same one understands, and nothing slips past the one who preserves your soul. And he shall repay a man according to his works
    13: My son, eat honey, because it is good, and the honeycomb, because it is so sweet to your throat
    14: So, too, is the doctrine of wisdom to your soul. When you have found it, you will have hope in the end, and your hope shall not perish
    15: Do not lie in wait, and do not seek impiety in the house of the just, nor spoil his rest
    16: For the just one will fall seven times, and he shall rise again. But the impious will fall into evil
    17: When your enemy will fall, do not be glad, and do not let your heart exult in his ruin
    18: lest perhaps the Lord see, and it displease him, and he may take away his wrath from him
    19: Do not contend with the most wicked, and do not be a rival to the impious
    20: For the evil hold no hope in the future, and the lamp of the impious will be extinguished
    21: My son, fear the Lord, as well as the king. And do not mingle with detractors
    22: For their perdition shall rise up suddenly. And who knows what ruin will be for each of them
    23: Likewise, these things are for the wise. It is not good to base judgment on knowledge of character
    24: Those who say to the impious, “You are just,” shall be cursed by the people, and the tribes shall detest them
    25: Those who argue against the impious shall be praised, and a blessing shall come upon them
    26: He shall kiss the lips, who responds with upright words
    27: Prepare your outdoor work, and diligently cultivate your field, so that afterward, you may build your house
    28: Do not be a witness without cause against your neighbor. And do not mislead anyone with your lips
    29: Do not say, “I will do to him as he has done to me.” I will repay each one according to his work
    30: I passed by the field of a lazy man, and by the vineyard of a foolish man
    31: and behold, it was entirely filled with nettles, and thorns had covered its surface, and the stonewall was destroyed
    32: When I had seen this, I laid it up in my heart, and by this example, I received discipline
    33: You will sleep a little,” I said. “You will slumber briefly. You will fold your hands a little, so as to rest
    34: And destitution will overtake you like a runner, and begging will overtake you like an armed man.

End of day 179.