Day 36:

Reading Numbers, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And when king Arad the Canaanite, who was living toward the south, had heard this, namely, that Israel had arrived by the way of spies, he fought against them. And proving to be the victor, he led away prey from them
    2: But Israel, obliging himself by a vow to the Lord, said: “If you deliver this people into my hand, I will wipe away their cities.
    3: And the Lord heard the prayers of Israel, and he delivered the Canaanite, whom they put to death, overthrowing his cities. And they called the name of that place Hormah, that is, Anathema
    4: Then they set out from mount Hor, by the way that leads to the Red Sea, to circle around the land of Edom. And the people began to tire of their journey and hardships
    5: And speaking against God and Moses, they said: “Why did you lead us away from Egypt, so as to die in the wilderness? Bread is lacking; there are no waters. Our soul is now nauseous over this very light food.
    6: For this reason, the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, which wounded or killed many of them
    7: And so they went to Moses, and they said: “We have sinned, because we have spoken against the Lord and against you. Pray, so that he may take away these serpents from us.” And Moses prayed for the people
    8: And the Lord said to him: “Make a bronze serpent, and place it as a sign. Whoever, having been struck, gazes upon it, shall live.
    9: Therefore, Moses made a bronze serpent, and he placed it as a sign. When those who had been struck gazed upon it, they were healed
    10: And the sons of Israel, setting out, made camp at Oboth
    11: Having departed from there, they pitched their tents at Iye-abarim, in the wilderness, which looks out toward Moab, opposite the eastern region
    12: And moving from there, they arrived at the Torrent of Zared
    13: Having left that place behind, they then made camp opposite Arnon, which is in the desert, and which juts out at the borders of the Amorite. For certainly Arnon is at the limit of Moab, dividing the Moabites and the Amorites
    14: About this place, it is said in the book of the wars of the Lord: “As he did at the Red Sea, so will he do at the Torrents of Arnon.
    15: The stones of the torrents were bent, so that they might rest in Ar and lie back within the borders of the Moabites
    16: Beyond that place appeared a well, about which the Lord said to Moses: “Gather the people together, and I will give them water.
    17: Then Israel sang this verse: “Let the well rise up.” They sang
    18: “The well, the leaders dug it, and the commanders of the multitude prepared it, at the direction of the lawgiver, and with their staffs.
    19: They went from the wilderness to Mattanah, from Mattanah to Nahaliel, from Nahaliel to Bamoth
    20: from Bamoth, a valley in the region of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks out opposite the desert
    21: Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon, the king of the Amorites, saying
    22: “I beg you to permit me to cross through your land. We will not turn aside into the fields or the vineyards. We will not drink waters from the wells. We will travel by the royal way, until we have passed your borders.
    23: And he was not willing to allow Israel to cross through his borders. But instead, gathering an army, he went out to meet them in the desert, and he arrived at Jahaz and fought against them
    24: And he was struck down by them with the edge of the sword, and they possessed his land from Arnon, even to Jabbok and the sons of Ammon. For the borders of the Ammonites were held by a strong fortress
    25: Therefore, Israel took all his cities and lived in the cities of the Amorite, namely, in Heshbon and its villages
    26: Heshbon was the city of Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who fought against the king of Moab. And he took all the land, which had been under his sovereignty, as far as Arnon
    27: About this, it is said in the proverb: “Enter into Heshbon. Let the city of Sihon be established and built
    28: A fire has gone forth from Heshbon, a flame from the town of Sihon, and it has devoured Ar of the Moabites, and the inhabitants of the heights of Arnon
    29: Woe to you, Moab! You are perishing, O people of Chemosh. He gave flight to his sons, and he gave the daughters into captivity, to the king of the Amorites, Sihon
    30: Their yoke has been scattered from Heshbon even to Dibon. They have passed through, wearily, into Nophah, and as far as Medeba.
    31: And so Israel lived in the land of the Amorite
    32: And Moses sent some to explore Jazer. These captured its villages and possessed its inhabitants
    33: And they turned themselves and ascended, along the way of Bashan. And Og, the king of Bashan, met them with all his people, to fight at Edrei
    34: And the Lord said to Moses: “Do not be afraid of him. For I have delivered him, and all his people, as well as his land, into your hand. And you shall do to him just as you did to Sihon, the king of the Amorites, the inhabitant of Heshbon.
    35: Therefore, they struck him down also, with his sons, and all his people, even to utter destruction, and they possessed his land

  Chapter 22.

    1: And they set out and made camp in the plains of Moab, across the Jordan, where Jericho is situated
    2: Then Balak, the son of Zippor, seeing all that Israel had done to the Amorite
    3: and that the Moabites had great fear of him, and that they were not able to bear his assault
    4: said to those greater by birth of Midian: “So will this people wipe away all those who are dwelling within our borders, in the same way that the ox is accustomed to tear out grass, all the way to the roots.” At that time, he was king of Moab
    5: Therefore, he sent messengers to Balaam, the son of Beor, a seer who lived above the river of the land of the sons of Ammon, to call him, and to say: “Behold, a people has gone forth from Egypt, which has covered the face of the earth. They are encamped opposite me
    6: Therefore, come and curse this people, for they are stronger than I am. If only, in some way, I might be able to strike them and to drive them from my land. For I know that he whom you bless shall be blessed, and he whom you curse shall be cursed.
    7: And the elders of Moab, and those greater by birth of Midian, continued on, holding the price of divination in their hands. And when they had come to Balaam, and had explained to him all the words of Balak
    8: he responded, “Remain for this night, and I will answer with whatever the Lord will say to me.” And while they stayed with Balaam, God came and said to him
    9: “What do these men want with you?
    10: He responded, “Balak, the son of Zippor, the king of the Moabites has sent to me
    11: saying: ‘Behold, a people, which has gone forth from Egypt, has covered the face of the earth. Come and curse them, so that, in some way, I may be able to fight them and drive them away.’ 
    12: And God said to Balaam, “Do not go with them, and do not curse the people, for they are blessed.
    13: And he, rising up in the morning, said to the leaders, “Go into your own land, for the Lord has prohibited me from going with you.
    14: Returning, the leaders said to Balak, “Balaam was not willing to come with us.
    15: Again, he sent many more persons, and these were more noble than those he had sent before
    16: And when these had come to Balaam, they said: “So says Balak, the son of Zippor. Do not hesitate to come to me
    17: For I am ready to honor you, and whatever you would want, I shall give to you. Come and curse this people.
    18: Balaam responded: “Even if Balak were to give to me his own house, filled with silver and gold, I still would not be able to change the word of the Lord my God, neither to say more, nor to say less
    19: I beg you to remain for this night also, so that I may know what the Lord will answer me again.
    20: Therefore, God came to Balaam in the night, and said to him: “If these men have arrived to call you, then rise up and go with them; yet only in so far as you shall do what I will command you.
    21: Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddling his donkey, he set out with them
    22: And God was angry. And an Angel of the Lord stood in the way opposite Balaam, who was sitting on the donkey, and he had two servants with him
    23: The donkey, discerning that the Angel was standing in the way with a drawn sword, turned herself from the road and went through a field. And when Balaam beat her and intended to return her to the path
    24: the Angel stood in a narrow place between the two walls, with which the vineyards were enclosed
    25: And the donkey, seeing this, drew herself close to the wall and scraped the foot of the rider. So he beat her again
    26: And, nevertheless, the Angel passing on to a narrow place, where one would not be able to deviate either to the right or to the left, stood to meet him
    27: And when the donkey had seen the Angel standing there, she fell under the feet of the rider, who, being angry, struck her sides more vehemently with a club
    28: And the Lord opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said: “What have I done to you? Why do strike you me, behold now, for the third time?
    29: Balaam responded, “Because you have deserved it, and you have mistreated me. If only I had a sword, so that I might pierce you.
    30: The donkey said: “Am not I your animal, on which you have always been accustomed to sit, even until this present day? Tell me, when did I ever do the same thing to you.” But he said, “Never.
    31: Immediately, the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the Angel standing in the way with a drawn sword, and he reverenced him prone on the ground
    32: And the Angel said to him: “Why did you beat your donkey three times? I have come to be an adversary to you, because your way is perverse and contrary to me
    33: And unless the donkey had turned aside from the way, allowing a place for my opposition, I would have killed you, and she would have lived.
    34: Balaam said: “I have sinned, not knowing that you stood against me. And now, if it displeases you for me to continue on, I will return.
    35: The Angel said, “Go with them, but be careful not to speak anything other than what I shall instruct you.” And so, he went with the leaders
    36: And when Balak had heard it, he went out to meet him in a town of the Moabites, which is situated at the furthest borders of Arnon
    37: And he said to Balaam: “I sent messengers to call you. Why did you not come to me immediately? Was it because I am not able to pay the cost for your arrival?
    38: He answered him: “Behold, here I am. Am I able to speak anything other than what God will put into my mouth?
    39: Therefore, they continued on together, and they arrived at a city, which was at the furthest borders of his kingdom
    40: And after Balak had killed oxen and sheep, he sent the gifts to Balaam, and to the leaders who were with him
    41: Then, when morning arrived, he led him to the heights of Baal, and he gazed upon the most distant portions of the population

  Chapter 23.

    1: And Balaam said to Balak, “Build seven altars here for me, and prepare as many calves, and the same number of rams.
    2: And when he had acted according to the words of Balaam, they placed a calf and a ram together on each altar
    3: And Balaam said to Balak: “Stand for a little while next to your holocaust, until I go, to see if perhaps the Lord will meet with me. And whatever he will command, I shall speak to you.
    4: And after he had quickly departed, God met with him. And Balaam, speaking to him, said: “I have set up seven altars, and I have placed a calf and a ram on each.
    5: Then the Lord placed the word in his mouth, and he said: “Return to Balak, and you shall say this.
    6: Returning, he found Balak standing next to his holocaust, with all the leaders of the Moabites
    7: And taking up his parable, he said: “Balak, king of the Moabites, has led me from Aram, from the mountains of the east. ‘Come forth,’ he said, ‘and curse Jacob. Hurry and condemn Israel.
    8: How shall I curse him, whom God has not cursed? For what reason would I condemn him, whom the Lord does not condemn
    9: I will look upon him from the tops of the stones, and I will consider him from the hills. This people shall dwell alone, and they shall not be counted among the nations
    10: Who can number the dust that is Jacob, and who can know the number of the stock of Israel? May my soul die a just death, and may my end be like theirs.
    11: And Balak said to Balaam: “What is this that you are doing? I called for you, in order to curse my enemies, and to the contrary, you bless them.
    12: He answered him, “How can I say anything other than what the Lord orders?
    13: Therefore, Balak said: “Come with me to another place, from where you may see a portion of Israel, though you cannot see them all. Curse them from there.
    14: And when he had led him to a lofty place, on the top of mount Pisgah, Balaam built seven altars, and placing upon each a calf and a ram
    15: he said to Balak, “Stand here next to your holocaust, while I continue on to meet him.
    16: And when the Lord had met him, and had put the word in his mouth, he said, “Return to Balak, and you shall say this to him.
    17: Returning, he found him standing next to his holocaust, and the leaders of the Moabites were with him. And Balak said to him, “What has the Lord spoken?
    18: But, taking up his parable, he said: “Stand, Balak, and pay attention. Listen, you son of Zippor
    19: God is not like a man, so that he would lie, nor is he like a son of man, so that he would be changed. Therefore, having spoken, will he not act? Has he ever spoken, and not fulfilled
    20: I was led here to bless, and I have no strength to hinder the blessing
    21: There is no idol in Jacob; neither is there a false image to be seen in Israel. The Lord his God is with him, and the resound of royal victory is in him
    22: God has led him away from Egypt; his strength is like that of the rhinoceros
    23: There is no soothsaying in Jacob, nor any divination in Israel. In their times, it shall be told to Jacob and to Israel what God has wrought
    24: Behold, the people will rise up like a lioness, and lie down like a lion. But they will not lie down until they devour the prey and drink the blood of the slain.
    25: And Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse him, nor bless him.
    26: And he said, “Have I not told you that whatever God would command of me, I would do?
    27: And Balak said to him: “Come and I will lead you to another place. If perhaps it may please God, then you may curse them from there.
    28: And when he had led him on to the top of mount Peor, which looks out toward the wilderness
    29: Balaam said to him, “Build seven altars here for me, and prepare as many calves, and the same number of rams.
    30: Balak did as Balaam had said, and he placed on each altar a calf and a ram

  Chapter 24.

    1: And when Balaam had seen that it was pleasing to the Lord that he should bless Israel, he by no means went out as he had gone before, to seek divination. But directing his face opposite the desert
    2: and lifting up his eyes, he saw Israel dwelling in tents by their tribes. And with the Spirit of God rushing into him
    3: taking up his parable, he said: “Balaam, the son of Beor, the man whose eye has been obstructed
    4: the hearer of the sermon of God, he who has gazed upon a vision of the Almighty, he who falls down and so his eyes are opened, has declared
    5: ‘How beautiful are your tabernacles, O Jacob, and your tents, O Israel
    6: They are like forested valleys, like gardens irrigated next to rivers, like tabernacles which the Lord has fixed, like cedars close to waters
    7: Water shall flow from his jar, and his offspring shall be amid many waters, because Agag, his king, shall be taken, and his kingdom shall be removed
    8: Away from Egypt, God has led him, whose strength is like the rhinoceros. They shall devour the nations that are his enemies, and break their bones, and pierce them with arrows
    9: Lying down, he has slept like a lion, and like a lioness, whom no one would dare to awaken. He who blesses you, shall himself also be blessed. He who curses you, shall be considered cursed.
    10: And Balak, being angry against Balaam, clapped his hands together and said: “I called you to curse my enemies, and, to the contrary, you have blessed them three times
    11: Return to your place. I had decided, indeed, to honor you greatly, but the Lord has deprived you of the designated honor.
    12: Balaam responded to Balak: “Did I not say to your messengers, whom you sent to me
    13: Even if Balak would give me his house, filled with silver and gold, I still could not go away from the word of the Lord my God, so as to offer anything, either good or evil, from my own heart; but whatever the Lord will speak, this, too, I shall speak
    14: Yet truly, as I continue on to my own people, I will give you counsel as to what this people shall do to your people in the end times.
    15: Therefore, taking up his parable, he again spoke: “Balaam the son of Beor, the man whose eye has been obstructed
    16: the hearer of the sermon of God, he who knows the doctrine of the Most High, and who sees the visions of the Almighty, who, falling down, has his eyes opened, has declared
    17: I shall see him, but not presently. I shall gaze upon him, but not soon. A star shall rise out of Jacob, and a rod shall spring up from Israel. And he shall strike down the commanders of Moab, and he shall devastate all the sons of Seth
    18: And he shall possess Idumea; the inheritance of Seir shall fall to their enemies. Yet truly, Israel shall act with strength
    19: From Jacob will be he who shall be ruler. And he shall perish the remnants of the city.
    20: And when he saw Amalek, taking up his parable, he said: “Amalek, first among the Gentiles, whose very end shall be perdition.
    21: Likewise, he saw the Kainites, and taking up his parable, he said: “Robust, indeed, is your habitation. But though you will set your nest in a rock
    22: and you will be elect among the stock of Kain, how long will you be able to remain? For Assur shall take you captive.
    23: And taking up his parable once more he said: “Alas! Who will be able to survive, when God will do these things
    24: They shall arrive in Greek warships from Italy. They shall overcome the Assyrians, and they shall devastate the Hebrews, and yet, at the very end, even they themselves shall perish.
    25: And Balaam rose up, and he returned to his place. Likewise, Balak went back, along the way by which he had arrived

End of day 36.