Day 162:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['105', '106', '107', '108']:

  Chapter 105.

    1: Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is with every generation
    2: Who will declare the powers of the Lord? Who make a hearing for all his praises
    3: Blessed are those who keep judgment and who do justice at all times
    4: Remember us, O Lord, with good will for your people. Visit us with your salvation
    5: so that we may see the goodness of your elect, so that we may rejoice in the joy of your nation, so that you may be praised along with your inheritance
    6: We have sinned, as have our fathers. We have acted unjustly; we have wrought iniquity
    7: Our fathers did not understand your miracles in Egypt. They did not remember the multitude of your mercies. And they provoked you, while going up to the sea, even the Red Sea
    8: And he saved them for the sake of his name, so that he might make known his power
    9: And he rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up. And he led them into the abyss, as if into a desert
    10: And he saved them from the hand of those who hated them. And he redeemed them from the hand of the enemy
    11: And the water covered those who troubled them. Not one of them remained
    12: And they believed his words, and they sang his praises
    13: As soon as they had finished, they forgot his works, and they would not endure his counsel
    14: And they coveted their desire in the desert, and they tempted God in a waterless place
    15: And he granted to them their request, and he sent abundance into their souls
    16: And they provoked Moses in the camp, and Aaron, the holy one of the Lord
    17: The earth opened and swallowed Dathan, and it covered the congregation of Abiram
    18: And a fire broke out in their congregation. A flame burned up the sinners
    19: And they fashioned a calf at Horeb, and they adored a graven image
    20: And they exchanged their glory for the likeness of a calf that eats hay
    21: They forgot God, who saved them, who did great things in Egypt
    22: miracles in the land of Ham, terrible things at the Red Sea
    23: And he said that he would destroy them, yet Moses, his elect, stood firm before him in the breach, in order to avert his wrath, lest he destroy them
    24: And they held the desirable land to be nothing. They did not trust in his word
    25: And they murmured in their tabernacles. They did not heed the voice of the Lord
    26: And he lifted up his hand over them, in order to prostrate them in the desert
    27: and in order to cast their offspring among the nations, and to scatter them among the regions
    28: And they were initiated into Baal of Peor, and they ate the sacrifices of the dead
    29: And they provoked him with their inventions, and ruination was multiplied in them
    30: Then Phinehas stood up and placated him: and so the violent disturbance ceased
    31: And it was reputed to him unto justice, from generation to generation, even forever
    32: And they provoked him at the Waters of Contradiction, and Moses was afflicted because of them
    33: for they exasperated his spirit. And so he divided them with his lips
    34: They did not destroy the nations, about which the Lord had spoken to them
    35: And they were mixed among the Gentiles. And they learned their works
    36: and they served their graven images, and it became a scandal to them
    37: And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons
    38: And they shed innocent blood: the blood of their sons and of their daughters, which they sacrificed to the graven images of Canaan. And the land was infected with bloodshed
    39: and was contaminated with their works. And they fornicated according to their own inventions
    40: And the Lord became furiously angry with his people, and he abhorred his inheritance
    41: And he delivered them into the hands of the nations. And those who hated them became rulers over them
    42: And their enemies afflicted them, and they were humbled under their hands
    43: Many times, he delivered them. Yet they provoked him with their counsel, and they were brought low by their iniquities
    44: And he saw that they were in tribulation, and he heard their prayer
    45: And he was mindful of his covenant, and he repented according to the multitude of his mercies
    46: And he provided for them with mercies, in the sight of all those who had seized them
    47: Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from the nations, so that we may confess your holy name and glory in your praise
    48: Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, from ages past, even to all ages. And let all the people say: Amen. Amen

  Chapter 106.

    1: Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is with every generation
    2: Let those who have been redeemed by the Lord say so: those whom he redeemed from the hand of the enemy and gathered from the regions
    3: from the rising of the sun and its setting, from the north and from the sea
    4: They wandered into solitude in a waterless place. They did not find the way of the city to be their dwelling place
    5: They were hungry, and they were thirsty. Their soul fainted within them
    6: And they cried out to the Lord in tribulation, and he rescued them in their necessity
    7: And he led them in the right way, so that they might go forth to a city of habitation
    8: Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men
    9: For he has satisfied the empty soul, and he has satisfied the hungry soul with good things
    10: those sitting in darkness and in the shadow of death, shackled by extreme poverty and by iron
    11: For they exasperated the eloquence of God, and they irritated the deliberation of the Most High
    12: And their heart was brought low with hardships. They were weakened, and there was no one to help them
    13: And they cried out to the Lord in their tribulation, and he freed them from their distress
    14: And he led them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and he broke apart their chains
    15: Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men
    16: For he has crushed the gates of brass and broken the iron bars
    17: He has taken them up, from the way of their iniquity. For they were brought low, because of their injustices
    18: Their soul abhorred all food, and they drew near even to the gates of death
    19: And they cried out to the Lord in their tribulation, and he delivered them in their necessity
    20: He sent his word, and he healed them, and he rescued them from their utter destruction
    21: Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men
    22: And let them offer sacrifice with the sacrifice of praise, and let them announce his works in exultation
    23: Those who descend to the sea in ships, making their livelihood in the great waters
    24: these have seen the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep
    25: He spoke: and a windstorm stood up, and its waves were exalted
    26: They ascend even to the heavens, and they descend even to the abyss. Their soul will waste away in distress
    27: They were troubled, and they moved like a drunkard, and all their wisdom was consumed
    28: And they cried out to the Lord in their tribulation, and he led them out of their distress
    29: And he replaced the storm with a breeze, and its waves were stilled
    30: And they were joyful that it was stilled, and he led them into the haven that they desired
    31: Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men
    32: And let them exalt him in the Church of the people, and praise him in the chair of the elders
    33: He has placed rivers in the desert and sources of water in dry places
    34: a fruit-bearing land in the midst of brine, before the malice of those who dwell in it
    35: He has placed a desert in the midst of pools of waters, and a land without water in the midst of sources of water
    36: And he has gathered the hungry together there, and they constructed a city of habitation
    37: And they sowed fields and planted vineyards, and they produced the fruit of nativity
    38: And he blessed them, and they were multiplied exceedingly. And he did not diminish their beasts of burden
    39: And they became few, and they were afflicted by the tribulation of evils and of sorrow
    40: Contempt was poured over their leaders, and he caused them to wander in an impassable place, and not on the way
    41: And he helped the poor out of destitution, and he stationed families like sheep
    42: The upright will see, and they will rejoice. And every iniquity will block its mouth
    43: Who is wise and will keep these things? And who will understand the mercies of the Lord

  Chapter 107.

    1: A Canticle Psalm, of David himself
    2: My heart is prepared, O God, my heart is prepared. I will sing songs, and I will sing psalms in my glory
    3: Rise up, my glory. Rise up, Psalter and harp. I will arise in early morning
    4: I will confess to you, O Lord, among the peoples. And I will sing psalms to you among the nations
    5: For your mercy is great, beyond the heavens, and your truth, even to the clouds
    6: Be exalted, O God, beyond the heavens, and your glory, beyond all the earth
    7: so that your beloved may be freed. Save with your right hand, and heed me
    8: God has spoken in his holiness. I will exult, and I will divide Shechem, and I will divide by measure the steep valley of tabernacles
    9: Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine, and Ephraim is the supporter of my head. Judah is my king
    10: Moab is the cooking pot of my hope. I will extend my shoe in Idumea; the foreigners have become my friends
    11: Who will lead me into the fortified city? Who will lead me, even into Idumea
    12: Will not you, O God, who had rejected us? And will not you, O God, go out with our armies
    13: Grant us help from tribulation, for vain is the help of man
    14: In God, we will act virtuously, and he will bring our enemies to nothing

  Chapter 108.

    1: Unto the end. A Psalm of David
    2: O God, do not be silent toward my praise, for the mouth of the sinner and the mouth of the deceitful one have been opened against me
    3: They have spoken against me with deceitful tongues, and they have surrounded me with hateful words, and they fought against me over nothing
    4: Instead of choosing to act on my behalf, they detracted me. But I gave myself to prayer
    5: And they set evil against me, instead of good, and hatred, in return for my love
    6: Establish the sinner over him, and let the devil stand at his right hand
    7: When he is judged, may he go forth in condemnation, and may his prayer be counted as sin
    8: May his days be few, and let another take his episcopate
    9: May his sons be orphans, and his wife a widow
    10: May his sons be carried by those who walk unsteadily, and may they go begging. And may they be cast out of their dwelling places
    11: May the money lenders scrutinize all his belongings, and let foreigners plunder his labors
    12: May there be no one to assist him, nor anyone to be compassionate to his orphaned children
    13: May his posterity be in utter ruin. In one generation, may his name be wiped away
    14: May the iniquity of his fathers return in memory before the sight of the Lord, and do not let the sin of his mother be wiped away
    15: May these be opposite the Lord always, but let their memory perish from the earth
    16: For certain things are not remembered about them, in order to be merciful
    17: And so the destitute man was pursued, with the beggar and the remorseful in heart, so as to be put to death
    18: And he loved a curse, and it came to him. And he was unwilling to have a blessing, and it went far from him. And he clothed himself with curses like a garment, and it entered his inner self like water, and it entered his bones like oil
    19: May it be to him like a garment that covers him, and like a belt that always cinches him
    20: This is the work of those who detract me with the Lord and who speak evils against my soul
    21: But as for you, Lord, O Lord: act on my behalf for your name’s sake. For your mercy is sweet
    22: Free me, for I am destitute and poor, and my heart has been disquieted within me
    23: I have been taken away like a shadow when it declines, and I have been shaken off like locusts
    24: My knees have been weakened by fasting, and my flesh has been replaced by oil
    25: And I have become a disgrace to them. They saw me, and they shook their heads
    26: Help me, O Lord, my God. Save me according to your mercy
    27: And let them know that this is your hand, and that you, O Lord, have done this
    28: They will curse, and you will bless. May those who rise up against me be confounded. But your servant will rejoice
    29: May those who detract me be clothed with shame, and may they be covered with their confusion, as if with a double cloak
    30: I will confess exceedingly to the Lord with my mouth. And I will praise him in the midst of the multitude
    31: For he stands at the right hand of the poor, in order to save my soul from persecutors

End of day 162.