Day 154:

Reading Psalms, chapters ['73', '74', '75', '76']:

  Chapter 73.

    1: The understanding of Asaph. O God, why have you rejected us to the end. Why has your fury become enraged over the sheep of your pasture
    2: Be mindful of your congregation, which you have possessed from the beginning. You redeemed the scepter of your inheritance, mount Zion, in which you have dwelt
    3: Lift up your hands against their arrogance in the end. How great the malice of the enemy has been in the sanctuary
    4: And those who hate you have been glorified, in the midst of your solemnity. They have set up their own signs as a proof
    5: as if it had been issued from on high; yet they did not understand. As in a forest of chopped wood
    6: they have cut down the entrances themselves. With axe and hatchet, they have brought it down
    7: They have set fire to your Sanctuary. They have polluted the tabernacle of your name on earth
    8: They have said in their heart, the whole group of them together: “Let us cause all the feast days of God to cease from the land
    9: We have not seen our proof; there is now no prophet. And he will no longer know us.
    10: How long, O God, will the enemy place blame? Is the adversary to provoke your name until the end
    11: Why do you turn your hand away, even your right hand, from the midst of your sinews, until the end
    12: But God is our king before all ages. He has wrought salvation in the midst of the earth
    13: In your virtue, you confirmed the sea. You crushed the heads of the serpents in the waters
    14: You have broken the heads of the serpent. You have given him as food for the people of the Ethiopians
    15: You have disrupted the fountains and the torrents. You have dried up the rivers of Ethan
    16: Yours is the day, and yours is the night. You have made the morning light and the sun
    17: You have made all the limits of the earth. The summer and the spring were formed by you
    18: Be mindful of this: the enemy placed blame against the Lord, and a foolish people has incited against your name
    19: Do not hand over to beasts the souls that confess to you; and do not forget the souls of your poor until the end
    20: Consider your covenant. For those who have been darkened upon the earth have been filled by the iniquity of the houses
    21: Do not allow the humble to be turned away in confusion. The poor and the needy will praise your name
    22: Rise up, O God, judge your own case. Call to mind the accusations against you, which are made by the foolish all day long
    23: Do not forget the voices of your adversaries. The arrogance of those who hate you rises up continually

  Chapter 74.

    1: Unto the end. May you not be corrupted. A Canticle Psalm of Asaph
    2: We will confess to you, O God. We will confess, and we will call upon your name. We will describe your wonders
    3: While I have time, I will judge justices
    4: The earth has been dissolved, with all who dwell in it. I have confirmed its pillars
    5: I said to the iniquitous: “Do not act unjustly,” and to the offenders: “Do not exalt the horn.
    6: Do not exalt your horn on high. Do not speak iniquity against God
    7: For it is neither from the east, nor from the west, nor before the desert mountains
    8: For God is judge. This one he humbles and that one he exalts
    9: For, in the hand of the Lord, there is a cup of undiluted wine, full of consternation. And he has tipped it from here to there. So, truly, its dregs have not been emptied. All the sinners of the earth will drink
    10: But I will announce it in every age. I will sing to the God of Jacob
    11: And I will break all the horns of sinners. And the horns of the just will be exalted

  Chapter 75.

    1: Unto the end. With Praises. A Psalm of Asaph. A Canticle to the Assyrians
    2: In Judea, God is known. In Israel, his name is great
    3: And his place has been formed with peace. And his dwelling place is in Zion
    4: In that place, he has broken the powers of the bows, the shield, the sword, and the battle
    5: You illuminate wondrously from the mountains of eternity
    6: All the foolish of heart have been disturbed. They have slept their sleep, and all the men of riches have found nothing in their hands
    7: At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, those who were mounted on horseback have fallen asleep
    8: You are terrible, and so, who can withstand you? From thence is your wrath
    9: You have caused judgment to be heard from heaven. The earth trembled and was quieted
    10: when God rose up in judgment in order to bring salvation to all the meek of the earth
    11: For the thinking of man will confess to you, and the legacy of his thinking will keep a feast day to you
    12: Make vows and pay them to the Lord, your God. All you who surround him bring gifts: to him who is terrible
    13: even to him who takes away the spirit of leaders, to him who is terrible with the kings of the earth

  Chapter 76.

    1: Unto the end. For Jeduthun. A Psalm of Asaph
    2: I cried out to the Lord with my voice, to God with my voice, and he attended to me
    3: In the days of my tribulation, I sought God, with my hands opposite him in the night, and I was not deceived. My soul refused to be consoled
    4: I was mindful of God, and I was delighted, and I was distressed, and my spirit fell away
    5: My eyes anticipated the vigils. I was disturbed, and I did not speak
    6: I considered the days of antiquity, and I held the years of eternity in my mind
    7: And I meditated in the night with my heart, and I was distressed, and I examined my spirit
    8: So then, will God reject for eternity? Will he not continue to allow himself to show favor
    9: Or, will he cut off his mercy in the end, from generation to generation
    10: And would God ever forget to be merciful? Or, would he, in his wrath, restrict his mercies
    11: And I said, “Now I have begun. This change is from the right hand of the Most High.
    12: I was mindful of the works of the Lord. For I will be mindful from the beginning of your wonders
    13: and I will meditate on all your works. And I will take part in your intentions
    14: Your way, O God, is in what is holy. Which God is great like our God
    15: You are the God who performs miracles. You have made your virtue known among the peoples
    16: With your arm, you have redeemed your people, the sons of Jacob and of Joseph
    17: The waters saw you, O God, the waters saw you, and they were afraid, and the depths were stirred up
    18: Great was the sound of the waters. The clouds uttered a voice. For your arrows also pass by
    19: The voice of your thunder is like a wheel. Your flashes have illuminated the whole world. The earth has quaked and trembled
    20: Your way is through the sea, and your paths are through many waters. And your traces will not be known
    21: You have conducted your people like sheep, by the hand of Moses and Aaron

End of day 154.