Day 313:

Reading Acts, chapters ['25', '26', '27', '28']:

  Chapter 25.

    1: And so, when Festus had arrived in the province, after three days, he ascended to Jerusalem from Caesarea
    2: And the leaders of the priests, and those first among the Jews, went to him against Paul. And they were petitioning him
    3: asking for favor against him, so that he would order him to be led to Jerusalem, where they were maintaining an ambush in order to kill him along the way
    4: But Festus responded that Paul was to be kept in Caesarea, and that he himself would soon go there
    5: “Therefore,” he said, “let those among you who are able, descend at the same time, and if there is any guilt in the man, they may accuse him.
    6: Then, having stayed among them no more than eight or ten days, he descended to Caesarea. And on the next day, he sat in the judgment seat, and he ordered Paul to be led in
    7: And when he had been brought, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, throwing out many serious accusations, none of which they were able to prove
    8: Paul offered this defense: “Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar, have I offended in any matter.
    9: But Festus, wanting to show greater favor to the Jews, responded to Paul by saying: “Are you willing to ascend to Jerusalem and to be judged there about these things before me?
    10: But Paul said: “I stand in Caesar’s tribunal, which is where I ought to be judged. I have done no harm to the Jews, as you well know
    11: For if I have harmed them, or if I have done anything deserving of death, I do not object to dying. But if there is nothing to these things about which they accuse me, no one is able to deliver me to them. I appeal to Caesar.
    12: Then Festus, having spoken with the council, responded: “You have appealed to Caesar, to Caesar you shall go.
    13: And when some days had passed, king Agrippa and Bernice descended to Caesarea, to greet Festus
    14: And since they remained there for many days, Festus spoke to the king about Paul, saying: “A certain man was left behind as a prisoner by Felix
    15: When I was at Jerusalem, the leaders of the priests and the elders of the Jews came to me about him, asking for condemnation against him
    16: I answered them that it is not the custom of the Romans to condemn any man, before he who is being accused has been confronted by his accusers and has received the opportunity to defend himself, so as to clear himself of the charges
    17: Therefore, when they had arrived here, without any delay, on the following day, sitting in the judgment seat, I ordered the man to be brought
    18: But when the accusers had stood up, they did not present any accusation about him from which I would suspect evil
    19: Instead, they brought against him certain disputes about their own superstition and about a certain Jesus, who had died, but whom Paul asserted to be alive
    20: Therefore, being in doubt about this kind of question, I asked him if he was willing go to Jerusalem and to be judged there about these things
    21: But since Paul was appealing to be kept for a decision before Augustus, I ordered him to be kept, until I might send him to Caesar.
    22: Then Agrippa said to Festus: “I myself also want to hear the man.” “Tomorrow,” he said, “you shall hear him.
    23: And on the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice had arrived with great ostentation and had entered into the auditorium with the tribunes and the principal men of the city, Paul was brought in, at the order of Festus
    24: And Festus said: “King Agrippa, and all who are present together with us, you see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews disturbed me at Jerusalem, petitioning and clamoring that he should not be allowed to live any longer
    25: Truly, I have discovered nothing brought forth against him that is worthy of death. But since he himself has appealed to Augustus, it was my judgment to send him
    26: But I have not determined what to write to the emperor about him. Because of this, I have brought him before you all, and especially before you, O king Agrippa, so that, once an inquiry has occurred, I may have something to write
    27: For it seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner and not to indicate the accusations set against him.

  Chapter 26.

    1: Yet truly, Agrippa said to Paul, “It is permitted for you to speak for yourself.” Then Paul, extending his hand, began to offer his defense
    2: “I consider myself blessed, O king Agrippa, that I am to give my defense today before you, about everything of which I am accused by the Jews
    3: especially since you know everything that pertains to the Jews, both customs and questions. Because of this, I beg you to listen to me patiently
    4: And certainly, all the Jews know about my life from my youth, which had its beginning among my own people in Jerusalem
    5: They knew me well from the beginning, (if they would be willing to offer testimony) for I lived according to the most determined sect of our religion: as a Pharisee
    6: And now, it is in the hope of the Promise which was made by God to our fathers that I stand subject to judgment
    7: It is the Promise that our twelve tribes, worshiping night and day, hope to see. About this hope, O king, I am accused by the Jews
    8: Why should it be judged so unbelievable with you all that God might raise the dead
    9: And certainly, I myself formerly considered that I ought to act in many ways which are contrary to the name of Jesus the Nazarene
    10: This is also how I acted at Jerusalem. And so, I enclosed many holy persons in prison, having received authority from the leaders of the priests. And when they were to be killed, I brought the sentence
    11: And in every synagogue, frequently while punishing them, I compelled them to blaspheme. And being all the more maddened against them, I persecuted them, even to foreign cities
    12: Thereafter, as I was going to Damascus, with authority and permission from the high priest
    13: at midday, O king, I and those who were also with me, saw along the way a light from heaven shining around me with a splendor greater than that of the sun
    14: And when we had all fallen down to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me in the Hebrew language: ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goad.
    15: Then I said, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And the Lord said, ‘I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting
    16: But rise up and stand on your feet. For I appeared to you for this reason: so that I may establish you as a minister and a witness concerning the things that you have seen, and concerning the things that I will show to you
    17: rescuing you from the people and the nations to which I am now sending you
    18: in order to open their eyes, so that they may be converted from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, so that they may receive the remission of sins and a place among the saints, through the faith that is in me.
    19: From then on, O king Agrippa, I was not unbelieving to the heavenly vision
    20: But I preached, first to those who are at Damascus and at Jerusalem, and then to the entire region of Judea, and to the Gentiles, so that they would repent and convert to God, doing the works that are worthy of repentance
    21: It was for this reason that the Jews, having apprehended me when I was in the temple, attempted to kill me
    22: But having been aided by the help of God, even to this day, I stand witnessing to the small and the great, saying nothing beyond what the Prophets and Moses have said would be in the future
    23: that the Christ would suffer, and that he would be the first from the resurrection of the dead, and that he would bring light to the people and to the nations.
    24: While he was speaking these things and presenting his defense, Festus said with a loud voice: “Paul, you are insane! Too much studying has turned you to insanity.
    25: And Paul said: “I am not insane, most excellent Festus, but rather I am speaking words of truth and sobriety
    26: For the king knows about these things. To him also, I am speaking with constancy. For I think that none of these things are unknown to him. And neither were these things done in a corner
    27: Do you believe the Prophets, O king Agrippa? I know that you believe.
    28: Then Agrippa said to Paul, “To some extent, you persuade me to become a Christian.
    29: And Paul said, “I hope to God that, both to a small extent and to a great extent, not only you, but also all those who hear me this day will become just as I also am, except for these chains.
    30: And the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and those who were sitting with them
    31: And when they had withdrawn, they were speaking among themselves, saying, “This man has done nothing worthy of death, nor of imprisonment.
    32: Then Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been released, if he had not appealed to Caesar.

  Chapter 27.

    1: Then it was decided to send him by ship to Italy, and that Paul, with the others in custody, should be delivered to a centurion named Julius, of the cohort of Augusta
    2: After climbing aboard a ship from Adramyttium, we set sail and began to navigate along the ports of Asia, with Aristarchus, the Macedonian from Thessalonica, joining us
    3: And on the following day, we arrived at Sidon. And Julius, treating Paul humanely, permitted him to go to his friends and to look after himself
    4: And when we had set sail from there, we navigated below Cyprus, because the winds were contrary
    5: And navigating though the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Lystra, which is in Lycia
    6: And there the centurion found a ship from Alexandria sailing to Italy, and he transferred us to it
    7: And when we had sailed slowly for many days and had barely arrived opposite Cnidus, for the wind was hindering us, we sailed to Crete, near Salmone
    8: And barely being able to sail past it, we arrived at a certain place, which is called Good Shelter, next to which was the city of Lasea
    9: Then, after much time had passed, and since sailing would no longer be prudent because the Fast Day had now passed, Paul consoled them
    10: and he said to them: “Men, I perceive that the voyage is now in danger of injury and much damage, not only to the cargo and the ship, but also to our own lives.
    11: But the centurion put more trust in the captain and the navigator of the ship, than in the things being said by Paul
    12: And since it was not a fitting port in which to winter, the majority opinion was to sail from there, so that somehow they might be able to arrive at Phoenicia, in order to winter there, at a port of Crete, which looks out toward the southwest and northwest
    13: And since the south wind was blowing gently, they thought that they might reach their goal. And after they had set out from Asson, they weighed anchor at Crete
    14: But not long afterward, a violent wind came against them, which is called the Northeast Wind
    15: And once the ship had been caught in it and was not able to strive against the wind, giving over the ship to the winds, we were driven along
    16: Then, being forced along a certain island, which is called the Tail, we were barely able to hold on to the ship’s lifeboat
    17: When this was taken up, they used it to assist in securing the ship. For they were afraid that they might run aground. And having lowered the sails, they were being driven along in this way
    18: Then, since we were being tossed about strongly by the tempest, on the following day, they threw the heavy items overboard
    19: And on the third day, with their own hands, they threw the equipment of the ship overboard
    20: Then, when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no end to the storm was imminent, all hope for our safety was now taken away
    21: And after they had fasted for a long time, Paul, standing in their midst, said: “Certainly, men, you should have listened to me and not set out from Crete, so as to cause this injury and loss
    22: And now, let me persuade you to be courageous in soul. For there shall be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship
    23: For an Angel of God, who is assigned to me and whom I serve, stood beside me this night
    24: saying: ‘Do not be afraid, Paul! It is necessary for you to stand before Caesar. And behold, God has given to you all those who are sailing with you.
    25: Because of this, men, be courageous in soul. For I trust God that this will happen in the same way that it has been told to me
    26: But it is necessary for us to arrive at a certain island.
    27: Then, after the fourteenth night arrived, as we were navigating in the sea of Adria, about the middle of the night, the sailors believed that they saw some portion of the land
    28: And upon dropping a weight, they found a depth of twenty paces. And some distance from there, they found a depth of fifteen paces
    29: Then, fearing that we might happen upon rough places, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and they were hoping for daylight to arrive soon
    30: Yet truly, the sailors were seeking a way to flee from the ship, for they had lowered a lifeboat into the sea, on the pretext that they were attempting to cast anchors from the bow of the ship
    31: So Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, “Unless these men remain in the ship, you will not be able to be saved.
    32: Then the soldiers cut the ropes to the lifeboat, and they allowed it to fall
    33: And when it began to be light, Paul requested that they all take food, saying: “This is the fourteenth day that you have been waiting and continuing to fast, taking nothing
    34: For this reason, I beg you to accept food for the sake of your health. For not a hair from the head of any of you shall perish.
    35: And when he had said these things, taking bread, he gave thanks to God in the sight of them all. And when he had broken it, he began to eat
    36: Then they all became more peaceful in soul. And they also took food
    37: Truly, we were two hundred and seventy-six souls on the ship
    38: And having been nourished with food, they lightened the ship, casting the wheat into the sea
    39: And when day had arrived, they did not recognize the landscape. Yet truly, they caught sight of a certain narrow inlet having a shore, into which they thought it might be possible to force the ship
    40: And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves to the sea, at the same time loosing the restraints of the rudders. And so, raising the mainsail to the gusting wind, they pressed on toward the shore
    41: And when we happened upon a place open to two seas, they ran the ship aground. And indeed, the bow, being immobilized, remained fixed, but truly the stern was broken by the violence of the sea
    42: Then the soldiers were in agreement that they should kill the prisoners, lest anyone, after escaping by swimming, might flee
    43: But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, prohibited it from being done. And he ordered those who were able to swim to jump in first, and to escape, and to get to the land
    44: And as for the others, some they carried on boards, and others on those things that belonged to the ship. And so it happened that every soul escaped to the land

  Chapter 28.

    1: And after we had escaped, we then realized that the island was called Malta. Yet truly, the natives offered us no small amount of humane treatment
    2: For they refreshed us all by kindling a fire, because rain was imminent and because of the cold
    3: But when Paul had gathered together a bundle of twigs, and had placed them on the fire, a viper, which had been drawn to the heat, fastened itself to his hand
    4: And truly, when the natives saw the beast hanging from his hand, they were saying to one another: “Certainly, this man must be a murderer, for though he escaped from the sea, vengeance will not permit him to live.
    5: But shaking off the creature into the fire, he indeed suffered no ill effects
    6: But they were supposing that he would soon swell up, and then would suddenly fall down and die. But having waited a long time, and seeing no ill effects in him, they changed their minds and were saying that he was a god
    7: Now among these places were estates owned by the ruler of the island, named Publius. And he, taking us in, showed us kind hospitality for three days
    8: Then it happened that the father of Publius lay ill with a fever and with dysentery. Paul entered to him, and when he had prayed and had laid his hands on him, he saved him
    9: When this had been done, all who had diseases on the island approached and were cured
    10: And then they also presented us with many honors. And when we were ready to set sail, they gave us whatever we needed
    11: And so, after three months, we sailed in a ship from Alexandria, whose name was ‘the Castors,’ and which had wintered at the island
    12: And when we had arrived at Syracuse, we were delayed there for three days
    13: From there, sailing close to the shore, we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day, with the south wind blowing, we arrived on the second day at Puteoli
    14: There, after locating the brothers, we were asked to remain with them for seven days. And then we went on to Rome
    15: And there, when the brothers had heard of us, they went to meet us as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns. And when Paul had seen them, giving thanks to God, he took courage
    16: And when we had arrived at Rome, Paul was given permission to stay by himself, with a soldier to guard him
    17: And after the third day, he called together the leaders of the Jews. And when they had convened, he said to them: “Noble brothers, I have done nothing against the people, nor against the customs of the fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans
    18: And after they held a hearing about me, they would have released me, because there was no case for death against me
    19: But with the Jews speaking against me, I was constrained to appeal to Caesar, though it was not as if I had any kind of accusation against my own nation
    20: And so, because of this, I requested to see you and to speak to you. For it is because of the hope of Israel that I am encircled with this chain.
    21: But they said to him: “We have not received letters about you from Judea, nor have any of the other new arrivals among the brothers reported or spoken anything evil against you
    22: But we are asking to hear your opinions from you, for concerning this sect, we know that it is being spoken against everywhere.
    23: And when they had appointed a day for him, very many persons went to him at his guest quarters. And he discoursed, testifying to the kingdom of God, and persuading them about Jesus, using the law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning until evening
    24: And some believed the things that he was saying, yet others did not believe
    25: And when they could not agree among themselves, they departed, while Paul was speaking this one word: “How well did the Holy Spirit speak to our fathers through the prophet Isaiah
    26: saying: ‘Go to this people and say to them: Hearing, you shall hear and not understand, and seeing, you shall see and not perceive
    27: For the heart of this people has grown dull, and they have listened with reluctant ears, and they have closed their eyes tightly, lest perhaps they might see with the eyes, and hear with the ears, and understand with the heart, and so be converted, and I would heal them.
    28: Therefore, let it be known to you, that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they shall listen to it.
    29: And when he had said these things, the Jews went away from him, though they still had many questions among themselves
    30: Then he remained for two whole years in his own rented lodgings. And he received all who went in to him
    31: preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things which are from the Lord Jesus Christ, with all faithfulness, without prohibition

End of day 313.