Day 358:

Reading Revelation, chapters ['17', '18', '19', '20']:

  Chapter 17.

    1: And one of the seven Angels, those who hold the seven bowls, approached and spoke with me, saying: “Come, I will show you the condemnation of the great harlot, who sits upon many waters
    2: With her, the kings of the earth have fornicated. And those who inhabit the earth have been inebriated by the wine of her prostitution.
    3: And he carried me away in spirit to the desert. And I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast, filled with names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns
    4: And the woman was clothed all around with purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, holding a golden cup in her hand, filled with the abomination and with the filth of her fornication
    5: And a name was written upon her forehead: Mystery, Babylon the great, the mother of the fornications and the abominations of the earth
    6: And I saw that the woman was inebriated from the blood of the saints and from the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And I was amazed, when I had seen her, with a great wonder
    7: And the Angel said to me: “Why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries her, which has seven heads and ten horns
    8: The beast that you saw, was, and is not, and is soon to ascend from the abyss. And he goes forth unto destruction. And the inhabitants upon the earth (those whose names have not been written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world) shall be amazed upon seeing the beast who was and is not
    9: And this is for one who understands, who has wisdom: the seven heads are seven mountains, upon which the woman sits, and they are seven kings
    10: Five have fallen, one is, and the other has not yet arrived. And when he arrives, he must remain for a brief time
    11: And the beast who was, and is not, the same is also the eighth, and he is of the seven, and he goes forth unto destruction
    12: And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings; these have not yet received a kingdom, but they shall receive authority, as if they were kings, for one hour, after the beast
    13: These hold to one plan, and they shall hand over their power and authority to the beast
    14: These shall fight against the Lamb, and the Lamb shall conquer them. For he is the Lord of lords and the King of kings. And those who are with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.
    15: And he said to me: “The waters that you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples and nations and languages
    16: And the ten horns that you saw on the beast, these shall hate the woman who fornicates, and they shall make her desolate and naked, and they shall chew her flesh, and they shall burn her completely with fire
    17: For God has granted to their hearts that they may do to her whatever is pleasing, so that they may give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God may be completed
    18: And the woman that you saw is the great City, which holds a kingdom above that of the kings of the earth.

  Chapter 18.

    1: And after these things, I saw another Angel, descending from heaven, having great authority. And the earth was illuminated by his glory
    2: And he cried out with strength, saying: “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great. And she has become the habitation of demons, and the keepsake of every unclean spirit, and the possession of every unclean and hateful flying thing
    3: For all the nations have imbibed the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And the kings of the earth have fornicated with her. And the merchants of the earth have become wealthy by the power of her pleasures.
    4: And I heard another voice from heaven, saying: “Go away from her, my people, so that you may not be participants in her pleasures, and so that you may not be recipients of her afflictions
    5: For her sins have pierced through even to heaven, and the Lord has remembered her iniquities
    6: Render to her, as she has also rendered to you. And repay her doubly, according to her works. Mix for her a double portion, in the cup with which she mixed
    7: As much as she has glorified herself and lived in pleasure, so much so give to her torment and grief. For in her heart, she has said: ‘I am enthroned as queen,’ and, ‘I am not a widow,’ and, ‘I shall not see sorrow.
    8: For this reason, her afflictions shall arrive in one day: death and grief and famine. And she shall be burned with fire. For God, who will judge her, is strong
    9: And the kings of the earth, who have fornicated with her and lived in luxury, shall weep and mourn for themselves over her, when they see the smoke of her conflagration
    10: standing far away, out of fear of her torments, saying: ‘Woe! Woe! to Babylon, that great city, that strong city. For in one hour, your judgment has arrived.
    11: And the businessmen of the earth shall weep and mourn over her, because no one will buy their merchandise anymore
    12: merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls, and of fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, and of every citrus tree wood, and of every tool of ivory, and of every tool from precious stone and brass and iron and marble
    13: and of cinnamon and black cardamom, and of fragrances and ointments and incense, and of wine and oil and fine flour and wheat, and of beasts of burden and sheep and horses and four-wheeled wagons, and of slaves and the souls of men
    14: And the fruits of the desires of your soul have gone away from you. And all things fat and splendid have perished from you. And they shall never find these things again
    15: The merchants of these things, who were made wealthy, shall stand far away from her, out of fear of her torments, weeping and mourning
    16: and saying: ‘Woe! Woe! to that great city, which was clothed with fine linen and purple and scarlet, and which was adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls.
    17: For such great wealth was brought to destitution in one hour. And every shipmaster, and all who navigate on lakes, and mariners, and those who work at sea, stood far away
    18: And they cried out, seeing the place of her conflagration, saying: ‘What city resembles this great city?
    19: And they cast dust upon their heads. And they cried out, weeping and mourning, saying: ‘Woe! Woe! to that great city, by which all who had ships at sea were made rich from her treasures. For she has been made desolate in one hour
    20: Exult over her, O heaven, O holy Apostles and Prophets. For God has judged your judgment upon her.’ 
    21: And a certain strong Angel took up a stone, similar to a great millstone, and he cast it into the sea, saying: “With this force shall Babylon, that great city, be cast down. And she shall never be found again
    22: And the sound of singers, and musicians, and flute and trumpet players shall not be heard in you again. And every artisan of every art shall not be found in you again. And the sound of the mill shall not be heard in you again
    23: And the light of the lamp shall not shine in you again. And the voice of the groom and of the bride shall not be heard in you anymore. For your merchants were the leaders of the earth. For all the nations were led astray by your drugs
    24: And in her was found the blood of the Prophets and of the Saints, and of all who were slain upon the earth.

  Chapter 19.

    1: After these things, I heard something like the voice of many multitudes in heaven, saying: “Alleluia! Praise and glory and power is for our God
    2: For true and just are his judgments, he who has judged the great harlot that corrupted the earth by her prostitution. And he has vindicated the blood of his servants from her hands.
    3: And again, they said: “Alleluia! For her smoke ascends forever and ever.
    4: And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God, sitting upon the throne, saying: “Amen! Alleluia!
    5: And a voice went out from the throne, saying: “Express praise to our God, all you his servants, and you who fear him, small and great.
    6: And I heard something like the voice of a great multitude, and like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of great thunders, saying: “Alleluia! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, has reigned
    7: Let us be glad and exult. And let us give glory to him. For the marriage feast of the Lamb has arrived, and his wife has prepared herself.
    8: And it was granted to her that she should cover herself with fine linen, splendid and white. For the fine linen is the justifications of the Saints
    9: And he said to me: “Write: Blessed are those who have been called to the wedding feast of the Lamb.” And he said to me, “These words of God are true.
    10: And I fell down before his feet, to adore him. And he said to me: “Be careful not to do so. I am your fellow servant, and I am among your brothers, who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Adore God. For the testimony of Jesus is a spirit of prophecy.
    11: And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And he who was sitting upon it was called Faithful and True. And with justice does he judge and fight
    12: And his eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, having a name written, which no one knows except himself
    13: And he was clothed with a vestment sprinkled with blood. And his name is called: THE WORD OF GOD
    14: And the armies that are in heaven were following him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean
    15: And from his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword, so that with it he may strike the nations. And he shall rule them with an iron rod. And he treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty
    16: And he has on his garment and on his thigh written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS
    17: And I saw a certain Angel, standing in the sun. And he cried out with a great voice, saying to all the birds that were flying through the midst of the sky, “Come and gather together for the great supper of God
    18: so that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of tribunes, and the flesh of the strong, and the flesh of horses and those sitting on them, and the flesh of all: free and servant, small and great.
    19: And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies, having been gathered together to do battle against him who was sitting upon the horse, and against his army
    20: And the beast was apprehended, and with him the false prophetess, who in his presence caused the signs, by which she seduced those who accepted the character of the beast and who worshiped his image. These two were cast alive into the pool of fire burning with sulphur
    21: And the others were slain by the sword that proceeds from the mouth of him who was sitting upon the horse. And all the birds were sated with their flesh

  Chapter 20.

    1: And I saw an Angel, descending from heaven, holding in his hand the key of the abyss and a great chain
    2: And he apprehended the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and he bound him for a thousand years
    3: And he cast him into the abyss, and he closed and sealed it, so that he would no longer seduce the nations, until the thousand years are completed. And after these things, he must be released for a brief time
    4: And I saw thrones. And they sat upon them. And judgment was given to them. And the souls of those beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the Word of God, and who did not adore the beast, nor his image, nor accept his character on their foreheads or on their hands: they lived and they reigned with Christ for a thousand years
    5: The rest of the dead did not live, until the thousand years are completed. This is the First Resurrection
    6: Blessed and holy is he who takes part in the First Resurrection. Over these the second death has no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and they shall reign with him for a thousand years
    7: And when the thousand years will have been completed, Satan shall be released from his prison, and he will go out and seduce the nations which are upon the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog. And he will gather them together for battle, those whose number is like the sand of the sea
    8: And they climbed across the breadth of the earth, and they encompassed the camp of the Saints and the Beloved City
    9: And fire from God descended from heaven and devoured them. And the devil, who seduced them, was cast into the pool of fire and sulphur,
    10: where both the beast and the false prophetess shall be tortured, day and night, forever and ever
    11: And I saw a great white throne, and One sitting upon it, from whose sight earth and heaven fled, and no place was found for them
    12: And I saw the dead, great and small, standing in view of the throne. And books were opened. And another Book was opened, which is the Book of Life. And the dead were judged by those things that had been written in the books, according to their works
    13: And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. And death and Hell gave up their dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one according to his works
    14: And Hell and death were cast into the pool of fire. This is the second death
    15: And whoever was not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the pool of fire

End of day 358.