Day 312:

Reading Acts, chapters ['21', '22', '23', '24']:

  Chapter 21.

    1: And after these things had happened, having reluctantly parted from them, we sailed a direct course, arriving at Cos, and on following the day at Rhodes, and from there to Patara
    2: And when we had found a ship sailing across to Phoenicia, climbing aboard, we set sail
    3: Then, after we had caught sight of Cyprus, keeping it to the left, we sailed on to Syria, and we arrived at Tyre. For the ship was going to unload its cargo there
    4: Then, having found the disciples, we lodged there for seven days. And they were saying to Paul, through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem
    5: And when the days were completed, setting out, we went on; and they all accompanied us with their wives and children, until we were outside of the city. And we kneeled down at the shore and prayed
    6: And when we had said farewell to one another, we climbed aboard the ship. And they returned to their own
    7: Yet truly, having completed our journey by boat from Tyre, we descended to Ptolemais. And greeting the brothers, we lodged with them for one day
    8: Then, after setting out the next day, we arrived at Caesarea. And upon entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him
    9: Now this man had four daughters, virgins, who were prophesying
    10: And while we were delayed for some days, a certain prophet from Judea, named Agabus, arrived
    11: And he, when he had come to us, took Paul’s belt, and binding his own feet and hands, he said: “Thus says the Holy Spirit: The man whose belt this is, the Jews will bind in this way at Jerusalem. And they will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
    12: And when we had heard this, both we and those who were from that place begged him not to go up to Jerusalem
    13: Then Paul responded by saying: “What do you accomplish by weeping and afflicting my heart? For I am prepared, not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem, for the name of the Lord Jesus.
    14: And since we were not able to persuade him, we quieted, saying: “May the will of the Lord be done.
    15: Then, after those days, having made preparations, we ascended to Jerusalem
    16: Now some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us, bringing with them a certain Cypriot named Mnason, a very old disciple, whose guests we would be
    17: And when we had arrived at Jerusalem, the brothers received us willingly
    18: Then, on the following day, Paul entered with us to James. And all the elders were assembled
    19: And when he had greeted them, he explained each thing that God had accomplished among the Gentiles through his ministry
    20: And they, upon hearing it, magnified God and said to him: “You understand, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law
    21: Now they have heard about you, that you are teaching those Jews who are among the Gentiles to withdraw from Moses, telling them that they should not circumcise their sons, nor act according to custom
    22: What is next? The multitude ought to be convened. For they will hear that you have arrived
    23: Therefore, do this thing that we ask of you: We have four men, who are under a vow
    24: Take these and sanctify yourself with them, and require them to shave their heads. And then everyone will know that the things that they have heard about you are false, but that you yourself walk in keeping with the law
    25: But, about those Gentiles who have believed, we have written a judgment that they should keep themselves from what has been immolated to idols, and from blood, and from what has been suffocated, and from fornication.
    26: Then Paul, taking the men on the next day, was purified with them, and he entered the temple, announcing the process of the days of purification, until an oblation would be offered on behalf of each one of them
    27: But when the seven days were reaching completion, those Jews who were from Asia, when they had seen him in the temple, incited all the people, and they laid hands on him, crying out
    28: “Men of Israel, help! This is the man who is teaching, everyone, everywhere, against the people and the law and this place. Furthermore, he has even brought Gentiles into the temple, and he has violated this holy place.
    29: (For they had seen Trophimus, an Ephesian, in the city with him, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.
    30: And the entire city was stirred up. And it happened that the people ran together. And apprehending Paul, they dragged him outside of the temple. And immediately the doors were closed
    31: Then, as they were seeking to kill him, it was reported to the tribune of the cohort: “All Jerusalem is in confusion.
    32: And so, immediately taking soldiers and centurions, he rushed down to them. And when they had seen the tribune and the soldiers, they ceased to strike Paul
    33: Then the tribune, drawing near, apprehended him and ordered that he be bound with two chains. And he was asking who he was and what he had done
    34: Then they were crying out various things within the crowd. And since he could not understand anything clearly because of the noise, he ordered him to be brought into the fortress
    35: And when he had arrived at the stairs, it happened that he was carried up by the soldiers, because of the threat of violence from the people
    36: For the multitude of the people were following and crying out, “Take him away!
    37: And as Paul was beginning to be brought into the fortress, he said to the tribune, “Is it permissible for me to say something to you?” And he said, “You know Greek
    38: So then, are you not that Egyptian who before these days incited a rebellion and led out into the desert four thousand murderous men?
    39: But Paul said to him: “I am a man, indeed a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of a well-known city. So I petition you, permit me to speak to the people.
    40: And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the stairs, motioned with his hand to the people. And when a great silence occurred, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying

  Chapter 22.

    1: “Noble brothers and fathers, listen to the explanation that I now give to you.
    2: And when they heard him speaking to them in the Hebrew language, they offered a greater silence
    3: And he said: “I am a Jewish man, born at Tarsus in Cilicia, but raised in this city beside the feet of Gamaliel, taught according to the truth of the law of the fathers, zealous for the law, just as all of you also are to this day
    4: I persecuted this Way, even unto death, binding and delivering into custody both men and women
    5: just as the high priest and all those greater by birth bear witness to me. Having received letters from them to the brothers, I journeyed to Damascus, so that I might lead them bound from there to Jerusalem, so that they might be punished
    6: But it happened that, as I was traveling and was approaching Damascus at midday, suddenly from heaven a great light shone around me
    7: And falling to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
    8: And I responded, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And he said to me, ‘I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting.
    9: And those who were with me, indeed, saw the light, but they did not hear the voice of him who was speaking with me
    10: And I said, ‘What should I do, Lord?’ Then the Lord said to me: ‘Rise up, and go to Damascus. And there, you shall be told all that you must do.
    11: And since I could not see, because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by my companions, and I went to Damascus
    12: Then a certain Ananias, a man in accord with the law, having the testimony of all the Jews who were living there
    13: drawing near to me and standing close by, said to me, ‘Brother Saul, see!’ And in that same hour, I looked upon him
    14: But he said: ‘The God of our fathers has preordained you, so that you would come to know his will and would see the Just One, and would hear the voice from his mouth
    15: For you shall be his witness to all men about those things which you have seen and heard
    16: And now, why do you delay? Rise up, and be baptized, and wash away your sins, by invoking his name.
    17: Then it happened that, when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, a mental stupor came over me
    18: and I saw him saying to me: ‘Hurry! Depart quickly from Jerusalem! For they will not accept your testimony about me.
    19: And I said: ‘Lord, they know that I am beating and enclosing in prison, throughout every synagogue, those who have believed in you
    20: And when the blood of your witness Stephen was poured out, I stood nearby and was consenting, and I watched over the garments of those who put him to death.
    21: And he said to me, ‘Go forth. For I am sending you to far away nations.’ 
    22: Now they were listening to him, until this word, and then they lifted up their voice, saying: “Take this kind away from the earth! For it is not fitting for him to live!
    23: And while they were shouting, and tossing aside their garments, and casting dust into the air
    24: the tribune ordered him to be brought into the fortress, and to be scourged and tortured, in order to discover the reason that they were crying out in this way against him
    25: And when they had tied him with straps, Paul said to the centurion who was standing near him, “Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman and has not been condemned?
    26: Upon hearing this, the centurion went to the tribune and reported it to him, saying: “What do you intend to do? For this man is a Roman citizen.
    27: And the tribune, approaching, said to him: “Tell me. Are you a Roman?” So he said, “Yes.
    28: And the tribune responded, “I obtained this citizenship at great cost.” And Paul said, “But I was born to it.
    29: Therefore, those who were going to torture him, immediately withdrew from him. The tribune was similarly afraid, after he realized that he was a Roman citizen, for he had bound him
    30: But on the next day, wanting to discover more diligently what the reason was that he was accused by the Jews, he released him, and he ordered the priests to convene, with the entire council. And, producing Paul, he stationed him among them

  Chapter 23.

    1: Then Paul, gazing intently at the council, said, “Noble brothers, I have spoken with all good conscience before God, even to this present day.
    2: And the high priest, Ananias, instructed those who were standing nearby to strike him on the mouth
    3: Then Paul said to him: “God shall strike you, you whitewashed wall! For would you sit and judge me according to the law, when, contrary to the law, you order me to be struck?
    4: And those who were standing nearby said, “Are you speaking evil about the high priest of God?
    5: And Paul said: “I did not know, brothers, that he is the high priest. For it is written: ‘You shall not speak evil of the leader of your people.’ 
    6: Now Paul, knowing that one group were Sadducees and the other were Pharisees, exclaimed in the council: “Noble brothers, I am a Pharisee, the son of Pharisees! It is over the hope and resurrection of the dead that I am being judged.
    7: And when he had said this, a dissension occurred between the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And the multitude was divided
    8: For the Sadducees claim that there is no resurrection, and neither angels, nor spirits. But the Pharisees confess both of these
    9: Then there occurred a great clamor. And some of the Pharisees, rising up, were fighting, saying: “We find nothing evil in this man. What if a spirit has spoken to him, or an angel?
    10: And since a great dissension had been made, the tribune, fearing that Paul might be torn apart by them, ordered the soldiers to descend and to seize him from their midst, and to bring him into the fortress
    11: Then, on the following night, the Lord stood near him and said: “Be constant. For just as you have testified about me in Jerusalem, so also it is necessary for you to testify at Rome.
    12: And when daylight arrived, some of the Jews gathered together and bound themselves with an oath, saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul
    13: Now there were more than forty men who had taken this oath together
    14: And they approached the leaders of the priests, and the elders, and they said: “We have sworn ourselves by an oath, so that we will taste nothing, until we have killed Paul
    15: Therefore, with the council, you should now give notice to the tribune, so that he may bring him to you, as if you intended to determine something else about him. But before he approaches, we have made preparations to put him to death.
    16: But when Paul’s sister’s son had heard of this, about their treachery, he went and entered into the fortress, and he reported it to Paul
    17: And Paul, calling to him one of the centurions, said: “Lead this young man to the tribune. For he has something to tell him.
    18: And indeed, he took him and led him to the tribune, and he said, “Paul, the prisoner, asked me to lead this young man to you, since he has something to say to you.
    19: Then the tribune, taking him by the hand, withdrew with him by themselves, and he asked him: “What is it that you have to tell me?
    20: Then he said: “The Jews have met to ask you to bring Paul tomorrow to the council, as if they intended to question him about something else
    21: But truly, you should not believe them, for they would ambush him with more than forty men from among them, who have bound themselves by an oath neither to eat, nor to drink, until they have put him to death. And they are now prepared, hoping for an affirmation from you.
    22: And then the tribune dismissed the young man, instructing him not to tell anyone that he had made known these things to him
    23: Then, having called two centurions, he said to them: “Prepare two hundred soldiers, so that they may go as far as Caesarea, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen, for the third hour of the night
    24: And prepare beasts of burden to carry Paul, so that they may lead him safely to Felix, the governor.
    25: For he was afraid, lest perhaps the Jews might seize him and kill him, and that afterwards he would be falsely accused, as if he had accepted a bribe. And so he wrote a letter containing the following
    26: “Claudius Lysias, to the most excellent governor, Felix: greetings
    27: This man, having been apprehended by the Jews and being about to be put to death by them, I rescued, overwhelming them with soldiers, since I realized that he is a Roman
    28: And wanting to know the reason that they objected to him, I brought him into their council
    29: And I discovered him to be accused about questions of their law. Yet truly, nothing deserving of death or imprisonment was within the accusation
    30: And when I had been given news of ambushes, which they had prepared against him, I sent him to you, notifying his accusers also, so that they may plead their accusations before you. Farewell.
    31: Therefore the soldiers, taking Paul according to their orders, brought him by night to Antipatris
    32: And the next day, sending the horsemen to go with him, they returned to the fortress
    33: And when they had arrived at Caesarea and had delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul before him
    34: And when he had read it and had asked which province he was from, realizing that he was from Cilicia, he said
    35: “I will hear you, when your accusers have arrived.” And he ordered him to be kept in the praetorium of Herod

  Chapter 24.

    1: Then, after five days, the high priest Ananias came down with some of the elders and a certain Tertullus, a speaker. And they went to the governor against Paul
    2: And having summoned Paul, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: “Most excellent Felix, since we have much peace through you, and many things may be corrected by your providence
    3: we acknowledge this, always and everywhere, with acts of thanksgiving for everything
    4: But lest I speak at too great a length, I beg you, by your clemency, to listen to us briefly
    5: We have found this man to be pestilent, to be inciting seditions among all the Jews in the entire world, and to be the author of the sedition of the sect of the Nazarenes
    6: And he has even been attempting to violate the temple. And having apprehended him, we wanted him to be judged according to our law
    7: But Lysias, the tribune, overwhelming us with great violence, snatched him away from our hands
    8: ordering his accusers to come to you. From them, you yourself will be able, by judging about all these things, to understand the reason that we accuse him.
    9: And then the Jews interjected, saying that these things were so
    10: Then, since the governor had motioned for him to speak, Paul responded: “Knowing that you have been the judge over this nation for many years, I will give an explanation of myself with an honest soul
    11: For, as you may realize, it has only been twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem
    12: And they did not find me in the temple arguing with anyone, nor causing a rally of the people: neither in the synagogues, nor in the city
    13: And they are not able to prove to you the things about which they now accuse me
    14: But I confess this to you, that according to that sect, which they call a heresy, so do I serve my God and Father, believing all that is written in the Law and the Prophets
    15: having a hope in God, which these others themselves also expect, that there will be a future resurrection of the just and the unjust
    16: And in this, I myself always strive to have a conscience that is lacking in any offense toward God and toward men
    17: Then, after many years, I went to my nation, bringing alms and offerings and vows
    18: through which I obtained purification in the temple: neither with a crowd, nor with a commotion
    19: But certain Jews out of Asia are the ones who should have appeared before you to accuse me, if they have anything against me
    20: Or let these ones here say if they have found in me any iniquity, while standing before the council
    21: For while standing among them, I spoke out solely about this one matter: about the resurrection of the dead. It is about this that I am being judged today by you.
    22: Then Felix, after having ascertained much knowledge about this Way, kept them waiting, by saying, “When Lysias the tribune has arrived, I will give you a hearing.
    23: And he ordered a centurion to guard him, and to take rest, and not to prohibit any of his own from ministering to him
    24: Then, after some days, Felix, arriving with his wife Drusilla who was a Jew, called for Paul and listened to him about the faith that is in Christ Jesus
    25: And after he discoursed about justice and chastity, and about the future judgment, Felix was trembling, and he responded: “For now, go, but remain under guard. Then, at an opportune time, I will summon you.
    26: He was also hoping that money might be given to him by Paul, and because of this, he frequently summoned him and spoke with him
    27: Then, when two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Portius Festus. And since Felix wanted to show particular favor to the Jews, he left Paul behind as a prisoner

End of day 312.