Day 302:

Reading John, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: After these things, there was a feast day of the Jews, and so Jesus ascended to Jerusalem
    2: Now at Jerusalem is the Pool of Evidence, which in Hebrew is known as the Place of Mercy; it has five porticos
    3: Along these lay a great multitude of the sick, the blind, the lame, and the withered, waiting for the movement of the water
    4: Now at times an Angel of the Lord would descend into the pool, and so the water was moved. And whoever descended first into the pool, after the motion of the water, he was healed of whatever infirmity held him
    5: And there was a certain man in that place, having been in his infirmity for thirty-eight years
    6: Then, when Jesus had seen him reclining, and when he realized that he had been afflicted for a long time, he said to him, “Do you want to be healed?
    7: The invalid answered him: “Lord, I do not have any man to put me in the pool, when the water has been stirred. For as I am going, another descends ahead of me.
    8: Jesus said to him, “Rise, take up your stretcher, and walk.
    9: And immediately the man was healed. And he took up his stretcher and walked. Now this day was the Sabbath
    10: Therefore, the Jews said to the one who had been healed: “It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up your stretcher.
    11: He answered them, “The one who healed me, he said to me, ‘Take up your stretcher and walk.’ 
    12: Therefore, they questioned him, “Who is that man, who said to you, ‘Take up your bed and walk?’ 
    13: But the one who had been given health did not know who it was. For Jesus had turned aside from the crowd gathered in that place
    14: Afterwards, Jesus found him in the temple, and he said to him: “Behold, you have been healed. Do not choose to sin further, otherwise something worse may happen to you.
    15: This man went away, and he reported to the Jews that it was Jesus who had given him health
    16: Because of this, the Jews were persecuting Jesus, for he was doing these things on the Sabbath
    17: But Jesus answered them, “Even now, my Father is working, and I am working.
    18: And so, because of this, the Jews were seeking to kill him even more so. For not only did he break the Sabbath, but he even said that God was his Father, making himself equal to God
    19: Then Jesus responded and said to them: “Amen, amen, I say to you, the Son is not able to do anything of himself, but only what he has seen the Father doing. For whatever he does, even this does the Son do, similarly
    20: For the Father loves the Son, and he shows him all that he himself does. And greater works than these will he show him, so much so that you shall wonder
    21: For just as the Father raises the dead and gives life, so also does the Son give life to whomever he wills
    22: For the Father does not judge anyone. But he has given all judgment to the Son
    23: so that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son, does not honor the Father who sent him
    24: Amen, amen, I say to you, that whoever hears my word, and believes in him who sent me, has eternal life, and he does not go into judgment, but instead he crosses from death into life
    25: Amen, amen, I say to you, that the hour is coming, and it is now, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and those who hear it shall live
    26: For just as the Father has life in himself, so also has he granted to the Son to have life in himself
    27: And he has given him the authority to accomplish judgment. For he is the Son of man
    28: Do not be amazed at this. For the hour is coming in which all who are in the grave shall hear the voice of the Son of God
    29: And those who have done good shall go forth to the resurrection of life. Yet truly, those who have done evil shall go to the resurrection of judgment
    30: I am not able to do anything of myself. As I hear, so do I judge. And my judgment is just. For I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me
    31: If I offer testimony about myself, my testimony is not true
    32: There is another who offers testimony about me, and I know that the testimony which he offers about me is true
    33: You sent to John, and he offered testimony to the truth
    34: But I do not accept testimony from man. Instead, I say these things, so that you may be saved
    35: He was a burning and shining light. So you were willing, at the time, to exult in his light
    36: But I hold a greater testimony than that of John. For the works which the Father has given to me, so that I may complete them, these works themselves that I do, offer testimony about me: that the Father has sent me
    37: And the Father who has sent me has himself offered testimony about me. And you have never heard his voice, nor have you beheld his appearance
    38: And you do not have his word abiding in you. For the one whom he sent, the same you would not believe
    39: Study the Scriptures. For you think that in them you have eternal life. And yet they also offer testimony about me
    40: And you are not willing to come to me, so that you may have life
    41: I do not accept glory from men
    42: But I know you, that you do not have the love of God within you
    43: I have come in the name of my Father, and you do not accept me. If another will arrive in his own name, him you will accept
    44: How are you able to believe, you who accept glory from one another and yet do not seek the glory that is from God alone
    45: Do not consider that I might accuse you with the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, in whom you hope
    46: For if you were believing in Moses, perhaps you would believe in me also. For he wrote about me
    47: But if you do not believe by his writings, how will you believe by my words?

  Chapter 6.

    1: After these things, Jesus traveled across the sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias
    2: And a great multitude was following him, for they saw the signs that he was accomplishing toward those who were infirm
    3: Therefore, Jesus went onto a mountain, and he sat down there with his disciples
    4: Now the Passover, the feast day of the Jews, was near
    5: And so, when Jesus had lifted up his eyes and had seen that a very great multitude came to him, he said to Philip, “From where should we buy bread, so that these may eat?
    6: But he said this to test him. For he himself knew what he would do
    7: Philip answered him, “Two hundred denarii of bread would not be sufficient for each of them to receive even a little.
    8: One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, said to him
    9: “There is a certain boy here, who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are these among so many?
    10: Then Jesus said, “Have the men sit down to eat.” Now, there was much grass in that place. And so the men, in number about five thousand, sat down to eat
    11: Therefore, Jesus took the bread, and when he had given thanks, he distributed it to those who were sitting down to eat; similarly also, from the fish, as much as they wanted
    12: Then, when they were filled, he said to his disciples, “Gather the fragments that are left over, lest they be lost.
    13: And so they gathered, and they filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which were left over from those who had eaten
    14: Therefore, those men, when they had seen that Jesus had accomplished a sign, they said, “Truly, this one is the Prophet who is to come into the world.
    15: And so, when he realized that they were going to come and take him away and make him king, Jesus fled back to the mountain, by himself alone
    16: Then, when evening arrived, his disciples descended to the sea
    17: And when they had climbed into a boat, they went across the sea to Capernaum. And darkness had now arrived, and Jesus had not returned to them
    18: Then the sea was stirred up by a great wind that was blowing
    19: And so, when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near to the boat, and they were afraid
    20: But he said to them: “It is I. Do not be afraid.
    21: Therefore, they were willing to receive him into the boat. But immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going
    22: On the next day, the crowd which was standing across the sea saw that there were no other small boats in that place, except one, and that Jesus had not entered into the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had departed alone
    23: Yet truly, other boats came over from Tiberias, next to the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord gave thanks
    24: Therefore, when the crowd had seen that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they climbed into the small boats, and they went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus
    25: And when they had found him across the sea, they said to him, “Rabbi, when did you come here?
    26: Jesus answered them and said: “Amen, amen, I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen signs, but because you have eaten from the bread and were satisfied
    27: Do not work for food that perishes, but for that which endures to eternal life, which the Son of man will give to you. For God the Father has sealed him.
    28: Therefore, they said to him, “What should we do, so that we may labor in the works of God?
    29: Jesus responded and said to them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he sent.
    30: And so they said to him: “Then what sign will you do, so that we may see it and believe in you? What will you work
    31: Our fathers ate manna in the desert, just as it has been written, ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’ 
    32: Therefore, Jesus said to them: “Amen, amen, I say to you, Moses did not give you bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven
    33: For the bread of God is he who descends from heaven and gives life to the world.
    34: And so they said to him, “Lord, give us this bread always.
    35: Then Jesus said to them: “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst
    36: But I say to you, that even though you have seen me, you do not believe
    37: All that the Father gives to me shall come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will not cast out
    38: For I descended from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me
    39: Yet this is the will of the Father who sent me: that I should lose nothing out of all that he has given to me, but that I should raise them up on the last day
    40: So then, this is the will of my Father who sent me: that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him may have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
    41: Therefore, the Jews murmured about him, because he had said: “I am the living bread, who descended from heaven.
    42: And they said: “Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? Then how can he say: ‘For I descended from heaven?’ 
    43: And so Jesus responded and said to them: “Do not choose to murmur among yourselves
    44: No one is able to come to me, unless the Father, who has sent me, has drawn him. And I will raise him up on the last day
    45: It has been written in the Prophets: ‘And they shall all be taught by God.’ Everyone who has listened and learned from the Father comes to me
    46: Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God; this one has seen the Father
    47: Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever believes in me has eternal life
    48: I am the bread of life
    49: Your fathers ate manna in the desert, and they died
    50: This is the bread which descends from heaven, so that if anyone will eat from it, he may not die
    51: I am the living bread, who descended from heaven
    52: If anyone eats from this bread, he shall live in eternity. And the bread that I will give is my flesh, for the life of the world.
    53: Therefore, the Jews debated among themselves, saying, “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
    54: And so, Jesus said to them: “Amen, amen, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, you will not have life in you
    55: Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day
    56: For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink
    57: Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him
    58: Just as the living Father has sent me and I live because of the Father, so also whoever eats me, the same shall live because of me
    59: This is the bread that descends from heaven. It is not like the manna that your fathers ate, for they died. Whoever eats this bread shall live forever.
    60: He said these things when he was teaching in the synagogue at Capernaum
    61: Therefore, many of his disciples, upon hearing this, said: “This saying is difficult,” and, “Who is able to listen to it?
    62: But Jesus, knowing within himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, said to them: “Does this offend you
    63: Then what if you were to see the Son of man ascending to where he was before
    64: It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh does not offer anything of benefit. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life
    65: But there are some among you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who were unbelieving and which one would betray him
    66: And so he said, “For this reason, I said to you that no one is able to come to me, unless it has been given to him by my Father.
    67: After this, many of his disciples went back, and they no longer walked with him
    68: Therefore, Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you also want to go away?
    69: Then Simon Peter answered him: “Lord, to whom would we go? You have the words of eternal life
    70: And we have believed, and we recognize that you are the Christ, the Son of God.
    71: Jesus answered them: “Have I not chosen you twelve? And yet one among you is a devil.
    72: Now he was speaking about Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. For this one, even though he was one of the twelve, was about to betray him

  Chapter 7.

    1: Then, after these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee. For he was not willing to walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill him
    2: Now the feast day of the Jews, the Feast of Tabernacles, was near
    3: And his brothers said to him: “Move away from here and go into Judea, so that your disciples there may also see your works that you do
    4: Of course, no one does anything in secret, but he himself seeks to be in the public view. Since you do these things, manifest yourself to the world.
    5: For neither did his brothers believe in him
    6: Therefore, Jesus said to them: “My time has not yet come; but your time is always at hand
    7: The world cannot hate you. But it hates me, because I offer testimony about it, that its works are evil
    8: You may go up to this feast day. But I am not going up to this feast day, because my time has not yet been fulfilled.
    9: When he had said these things, he himself remained in Galilee
    10: But after his brothers went up, then he also went up to the feast day, not openly, but as if in secret
    11: Therefore, the Jews were seeking him on the feast day, and they were saying, “Where is he?
    12: And there was much murmuring in the crowd concerning him. For certain ones were saying, “He is good.” But others were saying, “No, for he seduces the crowds.
    13: Yet no one was speaking openly about him, out of fear of the Jews
    14: Then, about the middle of the feast, Jesus ascended into the temple, and he was teaching
    15: And the Jews wondered, saying: “How does this one know letters, though he has not been taught?
    16: Jesus responded to them and said: “My doctrine is not of me, but of him who sent me
    17: If anyone has chosen to do his will, then he will realize, about the doctrine, whether it is from God, or whether I am speaking from myself
    18: Whoever speaks from himself seeks his own glory. But whoever seeks the glory of him who sent him, this one is true, and injustice is not in him
    19: Did not Moses give you the law? And yet not one among you keeps the law
    20: Why are you seeking to kill me?” The crowd responded and said: “You must have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you?
    21: Jesus responded and said to them: “One work have I done, and you all wonder
    22: For Moses gave you circumcision, (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers) and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man
    23: If a man can receive circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, why are you indignant toward me, because I have made a man whole on the Sabbath
    24: Do not judge according to appearances, but instead judge a just judgment.
    25: Therefore, some of those from Jerusalem said: “Is he not the one whom they are seeking to kill
    26: And behold, he is speaking openly, and they say nothing to him. Could the leaders have decided that it is true this one is the Christ
    27: But we know him and where he is from. And when the Christ has arrived, no one will know where he is from.
    28: Therefore, Jesus cried out in the temple, teaching and saying: “You know me, and you also know where I am from. And I have not arrived of myself, but he who sent me is true, and him you do not know
    29: I know him. For I am from him, and he has sent me.
    30: Therefore, they were seeking to apprehend him, and yet no one laid hands on him, because his hour had not yet come
    31: But many among the crowd believed in him, and they were saying, “When the Christ arrives, will he perform more signs than this man does?
    32: The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about him. And the leaders and the Pharisees sent attendants to apprehend him
    33: Therefore, Jesus said to them: “For a brief time, I am still with you, and then I am going to him who sent me
    34: You shall seek me, and you will not find me. And where I am, you are not able to go.
    35: And so the Jews said among themselves: “Where is this place to which he will go, such that we will not find him? Will he go to those dispersed among the Gentiles and teach the Gentiles
    36: What is this word that he spoke, ‘You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you are not able to go?’ 
    37: Then, on the last great day of the feast, Jesus was standing and crying out, saying: “If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink
    38: whoever believes in me, just as Scripture says, ‘From his chest shall flow rivers of living water.’ 
    39: Now he said this about the Spirit, which those who believe in him would soon be receiving. For the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified
    40: Therefore, some from that crowd, when they had heard these words of his, were saying, “This one truly is the Prophet.
    41: Others were saying, “He is the Christ.” Yet certain ones were saying: “Does the Christ come from Galilee
    42: Does Scripture not say that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and from Bethlehem, the town where David was?
    43: And so there arose a dissension among the multitude because of him
    44: Now certain ones among them wanted to apprehend him, but no one laid hands upon him
    45: Therefore, the attendants went to the high priests and the Pharisees. And they said to them, “Why have you not brought him?
    46: The attendants responded, “Never has a man spoken like this man.
    47: And so the Pharisees answered them: “Have you also been seduced
    48: Have any of the leaders believed in him, or any of the Pharisees
    49: But this crowd, which does not know the law, they are accursed.
    50: Nicodemus, the one who came to him by night and who was one of them, said to them
    51: “Does our law judge a man, unless it has first heard him and has known what he has done?
    52: They responded and said to him: “Are you also a Galilean? Study the Scriptures, and see that a prophet does not arise from Galilee.
    53: And each one returned to his own house

  Chapter 8.

    1: But Jesus continued on to the Mount of Olives
    2: And early in the morning, he went again to the temple; and all the people came to him. And sitting down, he taught them
    3: Now the scribes and Pharisees brought forward a woman caught in adultery, and they stood her in front of them
    4: And they said to him: “Teacher, this woman was just now caught in adultery
    5: And in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such a one. Therefore, what do you say?
    6: But they were saying this to test him, so that they might be able to accuse him. Then Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the earth
    7: And then, when they persevered in questioning him, he stood upright and said to them, “Let whoever is without sin among you be the first to cast a stone at her.
    8: And bending down again, he wrote on the earth
    9: But upon hearing this, they went away, one by one, beginning with the eldest. And Jesus alone remained, with the woman standing in front of him
    10: Then Jesus, raising himself up, said to her: “Woman, where are those who accused you? Has no one condemned you?
    11: And she said, “No one, Lord.” Then Jesus said: “Neither will I condemn you. Go, and now do not choose to sin anymore.
    12: Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying: “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me does not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
    13: And so the Pharisees said to him, “You offer testimony about yourself; your testimony is not true.
    14: Jesus responded and said to them: “Even though I offer testimony about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going
    15: You judge according to the flesh. I do not judge anyone
    16: And when I do judge, my judgment is true. For I am not alone, but it is I and he who sent me: the Father
    17: And it is written in your law that the testimony of two men is true
    18: I am one who offers testimony about myself, and the Father who sent me offers testimony about me.
    19: Therefore, they said to him, “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered: “You know neither me, nor my Father. If you did know me, perhaps you would know my Father also.
    20: Jesus spoke these words at the treasury, while teaching in the temple. And no one apprehended him, because his hour had not yet come
    21: Therefore, Jesus again spoke to them: “I am going, and you shall seek me. And you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you are not able to go.
    22: And so the Jews said, “Is he going to kill himself, for he said: ‘Where I am going, you are not able to go?’ 
    23: And he said to them: “You are from below. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world
    24: Therefore, I said to you, that you will die in your sins. For if you will not believe that I am, you will die in your sin.
    25: And so they said to him, “Who are you?” Jesus said to them: “The Beginning, who is also speaking to you
    26: I have much to say about you and to judge. But he who sent me is true. And what I have heard from him, this I speak within the world.
    27: And they did not realize that he was calling God his Father
    28: And so Jesus said to them: “When you will have lifted up the Son of man, then you shall realize that I am, and that I do nothing of myself, but just as the Father has taught me, so do I speak
    29: And he who sent me is with me, and he has not abandoned me alone. For I always do what is pleasing to him.
    30: As he was speaking these things, many believed in him
    31: Therefore, Jesus said to those Jews who believed in him: “If you will abide in my word, you will truly be my disciples
    32: And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.
    33: They answered him: “We are the offspring of Abraham, and we have never been a slave to anyone. How can you say, ‘You shall be set free?’ 
    34: Jesus answered them: “Amen, amen, I say to you, that everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin
    35: Now the slave does not abide in the house for eternity. Yet the Son does abide in eternity
    36: Therefore, if the Son has set you free, then you will truly be free
    37: I know that you are sons of Abraham. But you are seeking to kill me, because my word has not taken hold in you
    38: I speak what I have seen with my Father. And you do what you have seen with your father.
    39: They responded and said to him, “Abraham is our father.” Jesus said to them: “If you are the sons of Abraham, then do the works of Abraham
    40: But now you are seeking to kill me, a man who has spoken the truth to you, which I have heard from God. This is not what Abraham did
    41: You do the works of your father.” Therefore, they said to him: “We were not born out of fornication. We have one father: God.
    42: Then Jesus said to them: “If God were your father, certainly you would love me. For I proceeded and came from God. For I did not come from myself, but he sent me
    43: Why do you not recognize my speech? It is because you are not able to hear my word
    44: You are of your father, the devil. And you will carry out the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning. And he did not stand in the truth, because the truth is not in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks it from his own self. For he is a liar, and the father of lies
    45: But if I speak the truth, you do not believe me
    46: Which of you can convict me of sin? If I speak the truth to you, why do you not believe me
    47: Whoever is of God, hears the words of God. For this reason, you do not hear them: because you are not of God.
    48: Therefore, the Jews responded and said to him, “Are we not correct in saying that you are a Samaritan, and that you have a demon?
    49: Jesus responded: “I do not have a demon. But I honor my Father, and you have dishonored me
    50: But I am not seeking my own glory. There is One who seeks and judges
    51: Amen, amen, I say to you, if anyone will have kept my word, he will not see death for eternity.
    52: Therefore, the Jews said: “Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham is dead, and the Prophets; and yet you say, ‘If anyone will have kept my word, he shall not taste death for eternity.
    53: Are you greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? And the prophets are dead. So who do you make yourself to be?
    54: Jesus responded: “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me. And you say about him that he is your God
    55: And yet you have not known him. But I know him. And if I were to say that I do not know him, then I would be like you, a liar. But I know him, and I keep his word
    56: Abraham, your father, rejoiced that he might see my day; he saw it and was glad.
    57: And so the Jews said to him, “You have not yet reached fifty years, and you have seen Abraham?
    58: Jesus said to them, “Amen, amen, I say to you, before Abraham was made, I am.
    59: Therefore, they took up stones to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself, and he departed from the temple

End of day 302.