Day 286:

Reading Matthew, chapters ['9', '10', '11', '12']:

  Chapter 9.

    1: And climbing into a boat, he crossed the sea, and he arrived at his own city
    2: And behold, they brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, “Be strengthened in faith, son; your sins are forgiven you.
    3: And behold, some of the scribes said within themselves, “He is blaspheming.
    4: And when Jesus had perceived their thoughts, he said: “Why do you think such evil in your hearts
    5: Which is easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise up and walk?
    6: But, so that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins,” he then said to the paralytic, “Rise up, take up your bed, and go into your house.
    7: And he arose and went into his house
    8: Then the crowd, seeing this, was frightened, and they glorified God, who gave such power to men
    9: And when Jesus passed on from there, he saw, sitting at the tax office, a man named Matthew. And he said to him, “Follow me.” And rising up, he followed him
    10: And it happened that, as he was sitting down to eat in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners arrived, and they sat down to eat with Jesus and his disciples
    11: And the Pharisees, seeing this, said to his disciples, “Why does your Teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?
    12: But Jesus, hearing this, said: “It is not those who are healthy who are in need of a physician, but those who have maladies
    13: So then, go out and learn what this means: ‘I desire mercy and not sacrifice.’ For I have not come to call the just, but sinners.
    14: Then the disciples of John drew near to him, saying, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast frequently, but your disciples do not fast?
    15: And Jesus said to them: “How can the sons of the groom mourn, while the groom is still with them? But the days will arrive when the groom will be taken away from them. And then they shall fast
    16: For no one would sew a patch of new cloth onto an old garment. For it pulls its fullness away from the garment, and the tear is made worse
    17: Neither do they pour new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wineskins rupture, and the wine pours out, and the wineskins are destroyed. Instead, they pour new wine into new wineskins. And so, both are preserved.
    18: As he was speaking these things to them, behold, a certain ruler approached and adored him, saying: “Lord, my daughter has recently passed away. But come and impose your hand upon her, and she will live.
    19: And Jesus, rising up, followed him, with his disciples
    20: And behold, a woman, who had suffered from a flow of blood for twelve years, approached from behind and touched the hem of his garment
    21: For she said within herself, “If I will touch even his garment, I shall be saved.
    22: But Jesus, turning and seeing her, said: “Be strengthened in faith, daughter; your faith has made you well.” And the woman was made well from that hour
    23: And when Jesus had arrived in the house of the ruler, and he had seen the musicians and the tumultuous crowd
    24: he said, “Depart. For the girl is not dead, but asleep.” And they derided him
    25: And when the crowd had been sent away, he entered. And he took her by the hand. And the girl rose up
    26: And the news of this went out to that entire land
    27: And as Jesus passed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, “Take pity on us, Son of David.
    28: And when he had arrived at the house, the blind men approached him. And Jesus said to them, “Do you trust that I am able to do this for you?” They say to him, “Certainly, Lord.
    29: Then he touched their eyes, saying, “According to your faith, so let it be done for you.
    30: And their eyes were opened. And Jesus warned them, saying, “See to it that no one knows of this.
    31: But going out, they spread the news of it to all that land
    32: Then, when they had departed, behold, they brought him a man who was mute, having a demon
    33: And after the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds wondered, saying, “Never has anything like this been seen in Israel.
    34: But the Pharisees said, “By the prince of demons does he cast out demons.
    35: And Jesus traveled throughout all of the cities and towns, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdom, and healing every illness and every infirmity
    36: Then, seeing the multitudes, he had compassion on them, because they were distressed and were reclining, like sheep without a shepherd
    37: Then he said to his disciples: “The harvest indeed is great, but the laborers are few
    38: Therefore, petition the Lord of the harvest, so that he may sent out laborers to his harvest.

  Chapter 10.

    1: And having called together his twelve disciples, he gave them authority over unclean spirits,  to cast them out and to cure every sickness and every infirmity
    2: Now the names of the twelve Apostles are these: the First, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother
    3: James of Zebedee, and John his brother, Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew the tax collector, and James of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus
    4: Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him
    5: Jesus sent these twelve, instructing them, saying: “Do not travel by the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter into the city of the Samaritans
    6: but instead go to the sheep who have fallen away from the house of Israel
    7: And going forth, preach, saying: ‘For the kingdom of heaven has drawn near.
    8: Cure the infirm, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You have received freely, so give freely
    9: Do not choose to possess gold, nor silver, nor money in your belts
    10: nor provisions for the journey, nor two tunics, nor shoes, nor a staff. For the laborer deserves his portion
    11: Now, into whatever city or town you will enter, inquire as to who is worthy within it. And stay there until you depart
    12: Then, when you enter into the house, greet it, saying, ‘Peace to this house.
    13: And if, indeed, that house is worthy, your peace will rest upon it. But if it is not worthy, your peace will return to you
    14: And whoever has neither received you, nor listened to your words, departing from that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet
    15: Amen I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than for that city
    16: Behold, I am sending you like sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore, be as prudent as serpents and as simple as doves
    17: But beware of men. For they will hand you over to councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues
    18: And you shall be led before both rulers and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles
    19: But when they hand you over, do not choose to think about how or what to speak. For what to speak shall be given to you in that hour
    20: For it is not you who will be speaking, but the Spirit of your Father, who will speak in you
    21: And brother will hand over brother to death, and father will hand over son. And children will rise up against parents and bring about their deaths
    22: And you will be hated by all for the sake of my name. But whoever will have persevered, even to the end, the same shall be saved
    23: Now when they persecute you in one city, flee into another. Amen I say to you, you will not have exhausted all the cities of Israel, before the Son of man returns
    24: The disciple is not above the teacher, nor is the servant above his master
    25: It is sufficient for the disciple that he be like his teacher, and the servant, like his master. If they have called the Father of the family, ‘Beelzebub,’ how much more those of his household
    26: Therefore, do not fear them. For nothing is covered that shall not be revealed, nor hidden that shall not be known
    27: What I tell you in darkness, speak in the light. And what you hear whispered in the ear, preach above the rooftops
    28: And do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. But instead fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in Hell
    29: Are not two sparrows sold for one small coin? And yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father
    30: For even the hairs of your head have all been numbered
    31: Therefore, do not be afraid. You are worth more than many sparrows
    32: Therefore, everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father, who is in heaven
    33: But whoever will have denied me before men, I also will deny before my Father, who is in heaven
    34: Do not think that I came to send peace upon the earth. I came, not to send peace, but the sword
    35: For I came to divide a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law
    36: And the enemies of a man will be those of his own household
    37: Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And whoever loves son or daughter above me is not worthy of me
    38: And whoever does not take up his cross, and follow me is not worthy of me
    39: Whoever finds his life, will lose it. And whoever will have lost his life because of me, shall find it
    40: Whoever receives you, receives me. And whoever receives me, receives him who sent me
    41: Whoever receives a prophet, in the name of a prophet, shall receive the reward of a prophet. And whoever receives the just in the name of the just shall receive the reward of the just
    42: And whoever shall give, even to one of the least of these, a cup of cold water to drink, solely in the name of a disciple: Amen I say to you, he shall not lose his reward.

  Chapter 11.

    1: And it happened that, when Jesus had completed instructing his twelve disciples, he went away from there in order to teach and to preach in their cities
    2: Now when John had heard, in prison, about the works of Christ, sending two of his disciples, he said to him
    3: “Are you he who is to come, or should we expect another?
    4: And Jesus, responding, said to them: “Go and report to John what you have heard and seen
    5: The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, the poor are evangelized
    6: And blessed is he who has found no offense in me.
    7: Then, after they departed, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: “What did you go out to the desert to see? A reed shaken by the wind
    8: So what did you go out to see? A man in soft garments? Behold, those who are clothed in soft garments are in the houses of kings
    9: Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet
    10: For this is he, of whom it is written: ‘Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you.
    11: Amen I say to you, among those born of women, there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he
    12: But from the days of John the Baptist, even until now, the kingdom of heaven has endured violence, and the violent carry it away
    13: For all the prophets and the law prophesied, even until John
    14: And if you are willing to accept it, he is the Elijah, who is to come
    15: Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear
    16: But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplace
    17: who, calling out to their companions, say: ‘We played music for you, and you did not dance. We lamented, and you did not mourn.
    18: For John came neither eating nor drinking; and they say, ‘He has a demon.
    19: The Son of man came eating and drinking; and they say, ‘Behold, a man who eats voraciously  and who drinks wine, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ But wisdom is justified by her sons.
    20: Then he began to rebuke the cities in which many of his miracles were accomplished, for they still had not repented
    21: “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in haircloth and ashes
    22: Yet truly, I say to you, Tyre and Sidon shall be forgiven more than you, on the day of judgment
    23: And you, Capernaum, would you be exalted all the way to heaven? You shall descend all the way to Hell. For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Sodom, perhaps it would have remained, even to this day
    24: Yet truly, I say to you, that the land of Sodom shall be forgiven more than you, on the day of judgment.
    25: At that time, Jesus responded and said: “I acknowledge you, Father, Lord of Heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the prudent, and have revealed them to little ones
    26: Yes, Father, for this was pleasing before you
    27: All things have been delivered to me by my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and those to whom the Son is willing to reveal him
    28: Come to me, all you who labor and have been burdened, and I will refresh you
    29: Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am meek and humble of heart; and you shall find rest for your souls
    30: For my yoke is sweet and my burden is light.

  Chapter 12.

    1: At that time, Jesus went out through the ripe grain on the Sabbath. And his disciples, being hungry, began to separate the grain and to eat
    2: Then the Pharisees, seeing this, said to him, “Behold, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbaths.
    3: But he said to them: “Have you not read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him
    4: how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests
    5: Or have you not read in the law, that on the Sabbaths the priests in the temple violate the Sabbath, and they are without guilt
    6: But I say to you, that something greater than the temple is here
    7: And if you knew what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’ you would never have condemned the innocent
    8: For the Son of man is Lord even of the Sabbath.
    9: And when he had passed from there, he went into their synagogues
    10: And behold, there was a man who had a withered hand, and they questioned him, so that they might accuse him, saying, “Is it lawful to cure on the Sabbaths?
    11: But he said to them: “Who is there among you, having even one sheep, if it will have fallen into a pit on the Sabbath, would not take hold of it and lift it up
    12: How much better is a man than a sheep? And so, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbaths.
    13: Then he said to the man, “Extend your hand.” And he extended it, and it was restored to health, just like the other one
    14: Then the Pharisees, departing, took council against him, as to how they might destroy him
    15: But Jesus, knowing this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he cured them all
    16: And he instructed them, lest they make him known
    17: Then what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah was fulfilled, saying
    18: “Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased. I will place my Spirit over him, and he shall announce judgment to the nations
    19: He shall not contend, nor cry out, neither shall anyone hear his voice in the streets
    20: He shall not crush the bruised reed, and he shall not extinguish the smoking wick, until he sends forth judgment unto victory
    21: And the Gentiles shall hope in his name.
    22: Then one who had a demon, who was blind and mute, was brought to him. And he cured him, so that he spoke and saw
    23: And all the crowds were stupefied, and they said, “Could this be the son of David?
    24: But the Pharisees, hearing it, said, “This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebub, the prince of the demons.
    25: But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them: “Every kingdom divided against itself will become desolate. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand
    26: So if Satan casts out Satan, then he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand
    27: And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your own sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges
    28: But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has arrived among you
    29: Or how can anyone enter into the house of a strong man, and plunder his belongings, unless he first restrains the strong man? And then he will plunder his house
    30: Whoever is not with me, is against me. And whoever does not gather with me, scatters
    31: For this reason, I say to you: Every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven
    32: And anyone who will have spoken a word against the Son of man shall be forgiven. But whoever will have spoken against the Holy Spirit shall not be forgiven, neither in this age, nor in the future age
    33: Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree evil and its fruit evil. For certainly a tree is known by its fruit
    34: Progeny of vipers, how are you able to speak good things while you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks
    35: A good man offers good things from a good storehouse. And an evil man offers evil things from an evil storehouse
    36: But I say to you, that for every idle word which men will have spoken, they shall render an account in the day of judgment
    37: For by your words shall you be justified, and by your words shall you be condemned.
    38: Then certain ones from the scribes and the Pharisees responded to him, saying, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.
    39: And answering, he said to them: “An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign. But a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah
    40: For just as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of man be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights
    41: The men of Nineveh shall arise in judgment with this generation, and they shall condemn it. For, at the preaching of Jonah, they repented. And behold, there is a greater than Jonah here
    42: The Queen of the South shall arise in judgment with this generation, and she shall condemn it. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, there is a greater than Solomon here
    43: Now when an unclean spirit departs from a man, he walks through dry places, seeking rest, and he does not find it
    44: Then he says, ‘I will return to my house, from which I departed’. And arriving, he finds it vacant, swept clean, and decorated
    45: Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and live there. And in the end, the man becomes worse than he was at first. So, too, shall it be with this most wicked generation.
    46: While he was still speaking to the crowds, behold, his mother and his brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak with him
    47: And someone said to him: “Behold, your mother and your brothers are standing outside, seeking you.
    48: But responding to the one speaking to him, he said, “Which one is my mother, and who are my brothers?
    49: And extending his hand to his disciples, he said: “Behold: my mother and my brothers
    50: For anyone who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.

End of day 286.