Day 175:

Reading Proverbs, chapters ['5', '6', '7', '8']:

  Chapter 5.

    1: My son, pay attention to my wisdom, and incline your ear to my prudence
    2: so that you may guard your thinking, and so that your lips may preserve discipline. Do not pay attention to the deceit of a woman
    3: For the lips of a loose woman are like a dripping honeycomb, and her voice is smoother than oil
    4: But in the end, she is as bitter as wormwood, and as sharp as a two-edged sword
    5: Her feet descend into death, and her steps reach even to Hell
    6: They do not walk along the path of life; her steps are wandering and untraceable
    7: Therefore, my son, listen to me now, and do not withdraw from the words of my mouth
    8: Make your way at a distance from her, and do not approach the doors of her house
    9: Do not give your honor to foreigners, and your years to the cruel
    10: Otherwise, outsiders may be filled with your strength, and your labors may be in a foreign house
    11: and you may mourn in the end, when you will have consumed your flesh and your body. And so you may say
    12: “Why have I detested discipline, and why has my heart not been quieted by correction
    13: And why have I not listened to the voice of those who guided me? And why has my ear not inclined to my teachers
    14: I have almost been with all evil in the midst of the church and of the assembly.
    15: Drink water from your own cistern and from the springs of your own well
    16: Let your fountains be diverted far and wide, and divide your waters in the streets
    17: Hold them for yourself alone, and do not let strangers be partakers with you
    18: Let your spring be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth
    19: a beloved doe and most pleasing fawn. Let her breasts inebriate you at all times. Be delighted continually by her love
    20: Why are you seduced, my son, by a strange woman, and why are you kept warm by the bosom of another
    21: The Lord beholds the ways of man, and he considers all his steps
    22: His own iniquities take hold of the impious, and he is bound by the cords of his own sins
    23: He shall die, for he has not held to discipline. And by the multitude of his foolishness, he shall be deceived

  Chapter 6.

    1: My son, if you have taken a pledge on behalf of your friend, then you have bound your hand to an outsider
    2: then you are ensnared by the words of your own mouth, and taken captive by your own words
    3: Therefore, my son, do what I say, and free yourself, for you have fallen into the hand of your neighbor. Run, hurry, awaken your friend
    4: Do not grant sleep to your eyes, nor let your eyelids slumber
    5: Rescue yourself like a gazelle from the hand, and like a bird from the hand of the fowler
    6: Go to the ant, you lazy one, and consider her ways, and so learn wisdom
    7: For though she has no ruler, nor instructor, nor leader
    8: she provides meals for herself in the summer, and she gathers at the harvest what she may eat
    9: How long will you slumber, you lazy one? When will you rise up from your sleep
    10: You will sleep a little, you will slumber a little, you will fold your hands a little to sleep
    11: and then destitution will meet with you, like a traveler, and poverty, like an armed man. Yet truly, if you would be diligent, then your harvest will arrive like a fountain, and destitution will flee far from you
    12: An apostate man, a harmful man, walks with a perverse mouth
    13: he winks with the eyes, touches with the foot, speaks with the finger
    14: With a depraved heart he devises evil, and at all times he sows conflict
    15: To this one, his perdition will arrive promptly, and he shall be crushed suddenly: he will no longer have any remedy
    16: Six things there are that the Lord hates, and the seventh, his soul detests
    17: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood
    18: a heart that devises the most wicked thoughts, feet running swiftly unto evil
    19: a deceitful witness bringing forth lies, and he who sows discord among brothers
    20: My son, preserve the precepts of your father, and do not dismiss the law of your mother
    21: Bind them to your heart unceasingly, and encircle them around your throat
    22: When you walk, let them keep step with you. When you sleep, let them guard you. And when you keep watch, speak with them
    23: For commandment is a lamp, and law is a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life
    24: So may they guard you from an evil woman, and from the flattering tongue of the outsider
    25: Let not your heart desire her beauty; do not be captivated by her winks
    26: For the price of a prostitute is only one loaf. Yet the woman seizes the precious soul of a man
    27: Would a man be able to conceal fire in his bosom, so that his garments would not burn
    28: Or could he walk over burning coals, so that his feet would not be burned
    29: So also, he who enters to the wife of his neighbor shall not be clean when he touches her
    30: Not so great is the fault when someone has stolen. For he steals so as to satisfy a hungry soul
    31: Also, if he is apprehended, he shall repay sevenfold and hand over all the substance of his house
    32: But whoever is an adulterer, because of the emptiness of his heart, will destroy his own soul
    33: He gathers shame and dishonor to himself, and his disgrace will not be wiped away
    34: For the jealousy and fury of the husband will not spare him on the day of vindication
    35: nor will he agree to the pleadings of anyone, nor will he accept, as repayment, a multitude of gifts

  Chapter 7.

    1: My son, guard my words and conceal my precepts within you
    2: Son, preserve my commandments, and you shall live. And keep my law as the pupil of your eye
    3: Bind it with your fingers; write it on the tablets of your heart
    4: Say to wisdom, “You are my sister,” and call prudence your friend
    5: So may she guard you from the woman who is an outsider, and from the stranger who sweetens her words
    6: For I gaze from the window of my house, through the lattice
    7: and I see little ones. I consider a frenzied youth
    8: who crosses the street at the corner and close to the way of that house.
    9: He steps into shadows, as day becomes evening, into the darkness and gloom of the night
    10: And behold, a woman meets him, dressed like a harlot, prepared to captivate souls: chattering and rambling
    11: unwilling to bear silence, unable to keep her feet at home
    12: now outside, now in the streets, now lying in ambush near the corners
    13: And overtaking the youth, she kisses him, and with a provocative face, she flatters him, saying
    14: “I vowed sacrifices for well-being. Today I have repaid my vows
    15: Because of this, I have gone out to meet you, desiring to see you, and I have found you
    16: I have woven my bed with cords. I have strewn it with embroidered tapestries from Egypt
    17: I have sprinkled my bed with myrrh, aloe, and cinnamon
    18: Come, let us be inebriated in abundance, and let us delight in the embraces of desire, until the day begins to dawn
    19: For my husband is not in his house. He has gone away on a very long journey
    20: He took with him a bag of money. He will return to his house on the day of the full moon.
    21: She enmeshed him with many words, and she drew him forward with the flattery of her lips
    22: Immediately, he follows her, like an ox being led to the sacrifice, and like a lamb acting lasciviously, and not knowing that he is being drawn foolishly into chains
    23: until the arrow pierces his liver. It is just as if a bird were to hurry into the snare. And he does not know that his actions endanger his own soul
    24: Therefore, my son, hear me now, and attend to the words of my mouth
    25: Do not let your mind be pulled into her ways. And do not be deceived by her paths
    26: For she has tossed aside many wounded, and some of those who were very strong have been slain by her
    27: Her household is the way to Hell, reaching even to the inner places of death

  Chapter 8.

    1: Does not wisdom call out, and prudence bestow her voice
    2: At the summits and the tops of exalted places, standing above the ways, in the midst of the paths
    3: beside the gates of the city, at the very doors, she speaks, saying
    4: “O men, to you I call out, and my voice is to the sons of men
    5: O little ones, understand discernment. And you who are unwise, turn your souls
    6: Listen, for I will speak about great things, and my lips will be opened, so as to foretell what is right
    7: My throat shall practice truth, and my lips shall detest the impious
    8: All my words are just. There is no depravity in them, and no perversity
    9: They are upright to those who understand, and equitable to those who discover knowledge
    10: Accept my discipline, and not money. Choose the doctrine that is greater than gold
    11: For wisdom is better than all that is most precious, and everything that is desirable cannot compare to her
    12: I, wisdom, dwell in counsel, and I am inside learned thoughts
    13: The fear of the Lord hates evil. I detest arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue
    14: Counsel is mine, and equity. Prudence is mine. Strength is mine
    15: Through me, kings reign and legislators decree just conditions
    16: Through me, princes rule and the powerful decree justice
    17: I love those who love me. And those who stand watch for me until morning shall discover me
    18: With me, are wealth and glory, superb riches and justice
    19: For my fruit is better than gold and precious stones, and my progeny better than choice silver
    20: I walk in the way of justice, in the midst of the paths of judgment
    21: so that I may enrich those who love me, and thus complete their treasures
    22: The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his ways, before he made anything, from the beginning
    23: I was ordained from eternity, and out of antiquity, before the earth was formed
    24: The abyss did not yet exist, and I was already conceived; neither had the fountains of waters yet erupted
    25: The mountains, with their great mass, had not yet been established. Before the hills, I was brought forth
    26: Still he had not made the earth, and the rivers, and the poles of the globe of the earth
    27: I was already present: when he prepared the heavens; when, with a certain law and a circuit, he fortified the abyss
    28: when he made firm the sky above, and set free the fountains of waters
    29: when he encompassed the sea within its limits, and laid down a law for the waters, lest they transgress their limits; when he weighed the foundations of the earth
    30: I was with him in composing all things. And I was delighted, throughout every day, by playing in his sight at all times
    31: playing in globe of the earth. And my delight was to be with the sons of men
    32: Therefore, sons, hear me now. Blessed are those who preserve my ways
    33: Listen to discipline, and become wise, and do not be willing to cast it aside
    34: Blessed is the man who listens to me, and who stands watch at my gates everyday, and who observes at the posts of my doors
    35: He who finds me, finds life, and he will draw salvation from the Lord
    36: But he who sins against me will wound his own soul. All who hate me love death.

End of day 175.